DOC>
<DOCID> 17565 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Saturn_VUE </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_115038129796 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I finally got around to test driving some mini and smaller SUVs the next to last weekend of September. My wife and I are not wanna-be members of the status set, by any means, so my focus is on inexpensive but value packed vehicles. The Saturn was second on my list when I began, but was definitely off said list after I saw it in person and had some time to examine it closely. 

To begin with, I do find the outward appearance to be attractive, though somewhat eccentric. I considered the plastic body panels to be a plus, since my wife's vehicles always tend to attract more than their fair share of parking lot mishaps. However, my initial reaction, after the salesman opened the doors of the VUE to show me all it's features, was "This looks like something I'd have expected from Kia!" 

The seats were what I'd consider economy class, the fabric very thin and I really felt I was looking at an economy station wagon instead of an XUV. One thing that really bothered me was the driver's seat didn't have any kind of rear panel. You could push the limp fabric in until you felt the seat springs! I would hate to be driving this with someone with long legs behind me! The front passenger seat had a plastic back plate, which, while hardly attractive, at least protected the thin fabric from being punctured or torn by rear passenger feet and knees. Also, the rear seat back is too vertical for long term comfort and the rear seats are too close to the floor. I'm 5'11", and I would go crazy sitting back there for anything longer than a cross-town trip. The pop-up cargo box in the rear is neat, but I was again put off by how cheap it appears to be. When hidden, the top of the panel that would have to support cargo is hard and noisy plastic. I can only imagine the rattles when crossing speed bumps or even expansion joints. 

The dash and instrument layout were decent, but the materials used are low rent plastics. All the choices in this price range use lots of plastic. It's just that the VUE says "cheap" everywhere you look. The more I looked at this car, the more I recalled the infamous Yugo. While assemblage is much better, the overall effect is the same. 

The driving position is very car-like. Visibility is pretty good and the V6 sounds reasonably modern. I did not drive the VUE as I was so put-off by what I saw, I really couldn't bring myself to waste anymore of the salesman's time. Under the hood, I was disappointed that the old prop rod was required to prop up one of the few sheet metal body parts. I was very disappointed by the cookie cutter appearance of the engine, with it's cast aluminum head engendering un-fond remembrances of the old Vega slab engine. When I discovered, per the salesman, that the engine is assembled in Hungary, I must admit the Yugo specter popped up again. In effect, even the mechanicals give the appearance of cost cutting to the bone. 
Apparently, Saturn figures most potential owners won't care or look that closely. 

Simply put, I cannot get past the bargain basement approach that Saturn has taken with this vehicle. While the mechanicals may be just fine, the whole experience has put a bad taste in my mouth and I'm afraid it will be a long time before I will seriously consider Saturn as a contender for my hard earned cash. 

Nice try Saturn. You managed to lure me in, but this fish isn't biting! If the interior materials and presentation had passed my quality standards, I might have driven the VUE and given it more of a chance. The Hyundai Santa Fe I ended up buying wowed me with it's content and build quality. I wasn't looking for a luxury SUV in the first place. I also think it's very telling that a lot of the more negative reviews on Epinions are by owners!! 


            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<