DOC>
<DOCID> 23786 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Toyota_ECHO </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-63D1-8DD93FD-391B8163-prod3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Yep, Toyota must have signed off it's R&amp;D work to Hyundai on this joke of a car. I have driven worse cars, but not many (and I've driven a <i>lot</i> of cars). This will be one of my more brief opinions, as there is simply not enough to like about this car to ramble on for long.

First let's talk about what little there is to like about the Echo. Ok, I must admit I was surprised by the gargantuan trunk. It's almost as big as a Maxima's, and it is 0.1 cubic feet larger than the trunk on a Lexus ES300! No kidding! 14 cubic feet of trunk space in a car this tiny is a remarkable feat of engineering.

I also must admit that I like the amount of room inside the car, but only in a very general sense. The front seating is poorly designed, and I had a hard time getting comfortable in the drivers seat. I suspect the miniscule overall length has a lot to do with it, because the pedals felt as though they were about 6 inches too close. The pedal position actually reminded me of driving a Ford Aerostar for some odd reason. The back seats are fantastic, offering the rear passengers a relatively high sightline and lots of space in which to get comfy. I am six feet tall and I fit fine.

The only other thing I like about the Echo is the generous amount of interior storage space. There is enough room for all your stuff in all the little cubbies and storage spaces. I especially liked the clam-shell door of the glovebox, but I felt the two big compartments on either side of the stereo and A/C controls needed doors of their own as well.

As for what I didn't like, well... where do I start? Alright, let's begin with the obvious. This is positively the ugliest car on the road, IMHO.  This frumpy looking people-mover seems to have been chasing parked cars, as it's all squished-looking and out of proportion. A Pug (the dog) is the first thing that comes to mind when I look at this car from the side. The side profile of the Echo is positively cartoonish, IMHO. About the only uglier car that I can actually recall seeing is a ...um... er... come to think of it, there isn't one! *L*

Now how about that funky dashboard and center console setup?  I actually like the overall look of the design, but it is a shame that it was executed in materials of such obviously low quality. There is nothing remotely Toyota-like about this car. Not the styling, not the interior, and not the engine (more about that later).

And while it certainly adds character (something I really appreciate in a car), who hired the putz that decided the gauge pod should be located off towards the center of the car, completely out of the line of sight? Whomever it was, they should go the way of the Ford Edsel. This design simply does not work. I recall thinking as I was driving it that most of this car's target market are young singles, who are likely to be more distracted than most drivers by their blaring music and cellular phones. The last thing they need is for it to actually be <i>harder</i> to stay within the speed limit due to the fact that they must make a concerted effort to look at the speedometer.

Which actually brings to mind another shortcoming. Where is the tachometer? I think I'm really missing the point of this car. I understand the need to attract buyers with unique styling, but to do so at the cost of safety of operation seems like overkill. And there is more to this theory than just the silly speedometer location and ugly exterior.

The most unsafe aspect of the Echo is it's handling. It has been awhile since I drive something that felt less sure on its feet than the Echo.  This is a major surprise coming from Toyota, because Toyota owners are used to cars that are so easy to drive that they almost drive themselves. The Echo is the polar opposite of what I think of when I think of driving a Toyota. Any hint of a crosswind causes the car to move dangerously off it's path, forcing the driver to drop their cell phone in their lap and grab the wheel with both hands to correct.

Cornering ability is a total joke, thanks primarily to the 163.2 inch height of this incredibly short vehicle. If you haven't yet driven the Echo, imagine driving a free-standing cereal box with little tiny wheels on the bottom and you'll get the picture.

Perhaps worst of all is the amazing amount of noise this car makes. Some engine noise is expected from a small car like this, but the Echo is actually the noisiest car I've driven in quite a while. Then again, it might be the fact that this this car does not feel very well put together that adds to this impression. Hard to believe? It's sadly the truth. A Toyota with squeaks and rattles is almost an oxymoron, but that's definitely what we've got here.

All in all, I am truly disappointed with Toyotas latest effort. This is a far cry from their usual best-in-class product showing. Go take a seat in a Toyota Corolla and touch stuff. Then do the same in an Echo, and you'll see what I mean. This car feels like a Kia, both in terms of handling and quality.

Only time will tell if this car is on par with the rest of the cars Toyota builds. I suspect that it will fall apart cosmetically in a bit of a hurry, and that the engine will probably last for ever, as it does in most Toyota products. Here in Southern California (where rust isn't much of a factor) it is not uncommon to see an ancient Corolla on the road. It is entirely possible that the same may be true of this quirky automobile.

If only Toyota would address its shortcomings. Give it bigger wheels and beefier tires, and add some lateral stability in the form of a stiffer structure or at least some healthy structural reinforcements. Move the speedo back where it belongs --please.

Make it a hatchback or a wagon so the proportions will not quite so bizarre. And last but not least, please do something about the cheap interior treatment --it needs it.

At least the Echo has a definite win in the stereo category. The factory stereo in this car definitely rocks, thoroughly embarrassing the stereo systems in competing cars.

All in all, I didn't like this car and I would probably reccommend the new Nissan Sentra or Honda Civic (two of my favorite cars in this category) instead. The Echo is a definite disappointment. ...What happened Toyota?<br><br>
            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<