DOC>
<DOCID> 28640 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec_Cameras-Digital_KodakDCC-Kodak_DC-200 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_49743367812 </URL>
<TEXT>
             Ah yes, new technology. Or at least it was when I got it, or when my dad got it. He needed it for work but never ended up really using it so we got to keep it. It was the first digital camera I've used and am quite good with it. But what seemed good a couple years ago is no longer anywhere near good now.

 The Kodak DC-200 Plus camera come in a box with a 4mb memory card, a serial port connection cord to transfer pictures from the camera to your computer, a cd with the needed software, and some booklets and documentation. For some reason there was no case that came with it and I still can't figure out why because almost all cameras come with cases.

 The software the camera comes with is pretty bad. Only for one reason though. That reason being that the pictures don't always load. When you go to transfer them there is a list of all the pictures on the camera's memory card and you are asked to select the ones you want to transfer. Sounds simple enough right? That's because it is. But the bad part is when all the picture you select don't transfer. This can get extremely annoying. It gets extremely annoying if a) you're in a hurry to transfer the pictures, b) you're not a patient person, or c) you have a slow computer like mine which means you will have to keep restarting the transfer part of the program which can take some time. Other than it's easy to use once you get the hang of it.

 Now for the most important part, the camera. The camera it self has a nice screen that you can use instead of using the view finder and you can also change the camera options on the screen and view previously taken pictures. You can change the quality of the pictures and the resolution. There are three settings for each (I believe they're Good, Better, and Best for each). In the rest of the preferences section you can adjust the template, date stamp, file type, quickview, date and time, LCD brightness, format memory card, and the language.

 There is another thing I don't like about this camera. The lack of a zoom feature. There isn't one and because of that the pictures look like they were taken from pretty far away and in some cases look bad because of it. And yet another bad part of this camera is how long you have to wait in between pictures. I've been to a few hockey games with this camera and sometimes I wanted to take a quick picture but by the time it took the picture, I missed what had happened.

 Unless you work for some sort of battery company that gives you free batteries you're probably gonna' want a good pair of rechargeable's. This camera sucks up a full set of 4 batteries in about 12 pictures (with the LCD screen on for all them, I just prefer it).

 But despite all my criticism of this camera it does have two bright points. One of which is its price. This camera can now be found for about $220 CDN which is reasonably good for this camera. The other good thing is it's durability. At one hockey game at the Air Canada Centre (you can read my review on it) I some how managed to drop the camera onto the chair in the row below mine and from there it landed on the concrete floor. I was worried for two reasons. One reason was because I thought it might not work, and the other was because my dad was there and he wouldn't have been too happy if it broke. But I was very lucky because when I picked it up it worked fine and looked fine except for maybe a minor scratch or two.

 If there is anything else you want to know about that I didn't mention please leave a comment and I'll try to update this review with the answer.
            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<