DOC>
<DOCID> 32367 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Lincoln_Navigator </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_103254363780 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My parents bought a used 1999 (not 1999 1/2..which had a better engine but took premium fuel) it was a demo for the dealership. We paid significantly less than one would cost new but the truck only had 5000 miles on it. My whole family immediately fell in love with our new truck. But in the years to follow my eyes would be opened to European car making and the plague of troubles headed our way via our Laser Red Navi. 

Even when I knew very little about automobiles the fact that from sitting inside the cabin you could see painted sheet metal I always thought was very odd. There is very little quality weather stripping in this truck, thus you can see quite a bit of car body from inside the car. When standing outside the laser red is a very nice color...but when sitting inside the tan leather/vinyl interior the bright metallic red is a bit of an eyesore. But in the years to come I would learn a lot more about cars, and the cars that are made with quality in mind.

Shortly after the purchase of the Navigator for my mom, my dad wanted a 'toy' so he got a 1990 Jaguar VandenPlas Majestic. This car is one piece of artwork. There is more chrome and Connelly leather than is in any other car. There is virtually no vinyl to be found. This car was and is a mechanic's nightmare, but for some reason none of my family members could dislike the car. But with constant maintenance needed the car had to go. What came in its place was two BMWs. the first would turn into my car, a 1986 BMW 535i, the second is a 1994 740iL. I wasn&#146t a big fan of the 5 at first but I soon realized what kind of car this is. There is more leather in my 1986 BMW than there is in the 1999 Navigator. The people at ford are all about making money and not being concerned about the quality of their cars. The Navigator is a 'leather where the body touches' car, everywhere else is vinyl, and believe me...it shows. The leather is not very thick either, it wrinkles and looks older now than my 1986 bimmer's does. There is one hole in the bimmer's leather, and that is because the previous owner abused the car. There is one hole in the navigator's leather, and we take care of our cars, it was unavoidable, the way the leather was sewn in that particular spot and how thin the stuff is the leather just wore away. The seats are seats that the passengers sit 'on' not 'in' the seats do not hug the body in any fashion. There is a lack of surface area that the seats touch the back. This means in the winter the heated seats have a hard time keeping anything warm. That&#146s besides the fact that both the heated seats have had to be replaced because of faulty coils. The heated parts of the seats hardly travel to the back at all...truthfully I'm not sure of the back of the seat is equipped with heating elements at all. I know in the 7 series the heat goes almost to your shoulders and has two heating stages while the navigator has only one.

This truck is also our main pick to go on long trips in because of the room it provides. We have gone throughout our state of Indiana a lot, and gone to Washington DC and Atlanta. Each of those out of state trips we ended up at Lincoln dealerships getting a coil replaced. Normally there is one coil for an engine; this engine has four or eight I forget. But we have replaced 3 coils thus far...and the navigator is sitting in my driveway injured from a small one hour trip to Indianapolis and back. This will make coil number four. The only reason we used the navigator this time was that we had 6 passengers. We have learned that our 7 series provides as much if not more room for a four passenger trip. The only down side is that a cooler is not as accessible. But due to the Ski bag option on our car we are able to access the truck via a door behind the rear armrest, and we just put the cooler there in the trunk...our seven series has had not trouble yet, and it has twice as many miles. The 5 series which has had a few problems is knocking on 200000 miles.

I recently drove a Land Rover, on and off road. I must say that the handling of the Land Rover was superb and much better than the Navigator does on or off road.

Well, this isn&#146t a very well structured review but I think I have said what I wanted to say...I hope the new Navigator is a better truck. I do know that they have done without the vinyl on the seats. But if there is one piece of advice I can give: Buy a BMW...new or old...they really are the Ultimate Driving Machine!

Part 2:

I have received a request for my opinions on the Navigator's brakes, transmission, power, handling and gas mileage. The brakes have good performance, I regularly drive a beat up Ford Bronco with a trailer and lots of mowing equipment...when the Bronco is down I use the Navigator, the brakes are like heaven compared to the bronco's. There is not a lot of fade and are pretty predictable. But due to the vehicle's size and perhaps my choice of pads the brakes now squeak as bad as a school bus. My advice is to buy soft pads. 

The transmission is numbly smooth, even when flooring the accelerator the transmission does not act as though it is having a hard time changing gears. The transmission...like many American transmissions...likes to up shift every chance it gets, so if you let off the accelerator while traveling an uphill turn as you come out of the turn and push the accelerator you will have to wait, and endure a soft downshift, before you will have enough power to continue uphill. If the transmission had a better computer or something and was told not to up shift at those moments the power and performance would seems so much more ready for anything, not to mention less wear on the tranny.

Everyone who has driven our truck has commented that it is slow, and could use more power. It is hard to imagine 300HP not being enough. During daily driving the truck does need more power; otherwise one would have to accelerate beyond 3000-3500 RPMs every gear. There could be more torque down low. However surprisingly enough the Navi tows with no problem. I am no expert to try to explain why there is sufficient towing power but it needs more power just to push itself along. Go figure.

The handling is much like any other large SUV: like a chubby uncoordinated kid. There is plenty of roll in any turn and with the seats being the way they are (no lateral support) it becomes hard on passengers' backs because the back strains to keep you in the upright position. My father usually has to go to the chiropractor after any long trip in the Navi; the only other car that gave him that problem was an Oldsmobile a very long time ago. The steering is perhaps my favorite thing to hate. Every single tiny movement directed to the steering wheel from the driver is communicated throughout the entire truck. This is not a big problem unless on the interstate. Lane changes suddenly become work to make smooth. The passengers who may be riding in the third row seating are great to watch. Their heads will jerk with every little movement the driver makes. My brother gets car sick, not easily but he can, the third row seats will always turn him in. The steering is also noncommunicative. There is no sense of the road communicated to the driver through the steering. A baby's pinky finger could turn this steering wheel with no trouble. The steering is not variable, there is no instrument that makes it easier to turn the wheel while parking and harder to turn on the highway, and this is especially unsafe for an SUV. The steering is ALWAYS easy to turn, so sharp movements that could roll the vehicle over on the highway are something that can be done with ease. The brake pedal and accelerator pedal are both as noncommunicative as the steering.

Gas mileage...well say bye-bye to lots of cold hard cash. We average 13.3 miles to the gallon and we do more city than highway but still a fair amount of highway driving. Some Navigators require premium grade fuel...OUCH!...mine doesn&#146t. The 32 valve models require premium, at least they did last I read up on them.

One last detail that we have been disappointed with. The service people at the four Lincoln dealerships we have been to have usually been nice...but are ford people. You are treated like any other ford customer. I am usually not snobby but if I bought a Lincoln I want the service I get at many higher end dealerships such as Mercedes and BMW. Also, when our Navi was in for repair under warranty, which happened quite frequently, we got a Ford Taurus loaner. The first time the Navi was in for repair we got a Lincoln LS...we thought that was proper, come with a Lincoln leave with a Lincoln. Later I learned that was only because their two Taurus loaners were out.

I must say that the bucket seat second row and the outer styling of the Navi are infinitely better than the expedition which has 2nd and 3rd row benches.


            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<