DOC>
<DOCID> 4422 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Volkswagen_Golf </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_78360514180 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Notice how most of the other reviewers never came back and updated what they wrote?  Most people had their cars just a few weeks when they wrote their reviews and they were all smiles over their shiny new cars, so was I.  But now I've had my TDI Golf for over a year now and while the shine is still there, my smile has turned into a frown.  

I purchased my Golf brand new in 2002.  I love cars and I chose Volkswagen because I believed I was buying a well made car with a design that had been on the market long enough to be well sorted out.  I needed a reliable car and I did not expect the small quality and construction problems I have had and frankly, I am terribly disappointed.

The first problem occurred just 8 months after my purchase. A passenger closed my car's door the power window suddenly fell down into the door.  Because I am handy with tools, and because I thought the window had just slipped out of its rail I took off the door panel and tried to fix it.  

I found out that the window mechanism is operated by an electric motor that pulls on a reel filled with a thin cable which is run around a couple of pulleys and into two plastic clips attached to the bottom of the glass.  One of the plastic clips on my window just snapped and the cable came unwound from the reel.  Without any tension, the window just fell into the door where it couldn't be recovered without a major hassle.  The cable was an unwound mess inside the door and the broken plastic piece was irreparable.

I Pulled the window back into the window frame and had to jury rig it to keep the rain out for the weekend.  On Monday, it was off to the dealer for repairs and I was left without a car. Not a good thing to have to do to a car with less than 5000 miles on it.  I was disappointed but I figured that "These things happen."

After doing a little research I discovered power window problems are common in VW products. the plastic clips break with such frequency that VW has extended their warranty on the windows for up to 7 years.  Unfortunately, they aren't changing the design - they're just replacing the broken part with the same kind of cruddy part that broke the first time!  A lot of people are being forced to go back to the dealer multiple times to repair their cars' defective windows.  In my opinion, this is unacceptable.

The next problem I had is the brake light switch/automatic transmission safety lock out.  One day the glow plug light warning light on the dash board started flashing while I was driving.  According to the manual, that means there is a problem with the engine control module - which scared the heck out of me - but little internet research revealed that this problem can also be caused by two burned-out brake light bulbs, a blown brake light fuse or a bad brake light switch.  My own tests with an electrical tester revealed a bad switch.  Simple, I thought, 25 cents worth of plastic and pot metal and five minutes work under the dash is all it takes to fix it, but that's where the trouble REALLY began...

I went to my local parts store, and was told it's a dealer only item.  I went to my local dealer, they were out of stock and, since this happens a lot, the part is on back order!  They searched the computer and told me no dealer in my area had the part I needed in stock.  Next, I called some VW dealers in other areas and was able to locate the part!  Then they told me they wouldn't ship it to me because it was outside of their franchise area.  They said that, even if I gave them a credit card number over the phone and paid the shipping charges, they wouldn't send it!  One parts guy said, "Sending parts isn't something we do."  Thanks VW!

In desperation, I filed a complaint with VW through their web site (their "help line" isn't available on the weekend!) and almost two weeks later somebody finally called me back.  When I asked what happened to the two-day call back the web site promises, they told me they had called but couldn't reach me.  (Never mind that I gave them my work number and the fact that I work in an office that has four receptionists and voice mail - they couldn't reach me!)

VW's Customer service "advocates" totally stroked me.  First, they acted like the problem was my fault and left me feeling 100 percent more dissatisfied than I was before.  They treated me like an idiot.  The "advocate" and I really got into it and I chewed her out hot-and-heavy.  Then I did the same to the supervisor.  In spite of the call and the complaint, VW's "customer service advocates" didn't help me get the part either!

I had two wait for three weeks while my only car sat immobile in the driveway for my local dealer to get the part in.  I read later that all automatic transmission new Beetles were recalled for this same problem and it seems now that VW wasn't shipping the parts so they could get a sufficient inventory to cover the recall.  Once I got the part, I bought two and carry one in the glove box at all times - just to be safe. 

Another problem occurred when the plastic splash shield under the engine came loose from its cheap plastic mounts and dragged on the road.  Since it was virtually impossible for me to get new mounting hardware that wouldn&#146t just break again in another year, I tore it off and threw it in the trash.

Most recently, the air bag light has come on and refuses to go off.  I tried disconnecting the battery and resetting it, but there must be some problem with the contacts because that didn&#146t work.  Because I don&#146t have the time to take it to the dealer and be immobilized for however many days it takes to fix I&#146m just driving it anyway.

Overall, I really liked the car before all this happened and I feel really betrayed. A car like this should not have such consistent small problems.  I no longer have any pride of ownership.  I used to love looking at this car, it is quite handsome and well appointed, but now it just turns my stomach.   I told the customer service care manager I talked to, (someone else who refused to help) "I can buy any car I want and I picked yours.  After just 5000 miles and 1 year, I regret my decision."  I'll never recommend a VW or Audi product to anyone ever again.   

I say: Avoid buying a VW.  A little research on the internet will back me up - there are thousands of pending complaints against these cars. Look into how VW had to be forced by a class action law suit to repair defective coils on their Passats and how their workmanship has become shoddy the parts fall off in the street.  These cars suck, and VW's customer service sucks.  Spend your dollars elsewhere, nobody deserves this level of frustration..

            
<label> No
<rating>  1.0

</DOC>
<