DOC>
<DOCID> 7430 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Volvo_S40 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_58661375620 </URL>
<TEXT>
            With auto manufacturers such as BMW, Mercedes, Lexus and Infinity breaking into the smaller, less expensive market, it was no surprise that Volvo would throw its hat in the ring with the S40 sedan. Small in stature, but loaded with all of Volvo's safety features, this little turbo promised to be an interesting package. This review captures my experiences over the first year of ownership. 

APPEARANCE 
The S40 has clean and neat European lines. The distinctive Volvo grille gives way to a somewhat plain rear fascia treatment. The bright red paint on this particular S40 showed mysterious, dark "shadow" spots on the hood and trunk lid. According to Volvo and my expert paint shop, nothing to worry about, just a flaw in the clear coat or painting process. Trying to keep your S40 showroom fresh is nearly impossible due to the constant black dust generated by the super soft disc brake pads. Within three days of a meticulous wash and detail, your S40 will look like an old junker with black wheels. Bummer. 

INTERIOR 
Moving inside, the dash is plain and fairly simple with all required gauges. The remainder of the interior is fairly bland but functional. This Volvo seriously lacks usable cup holders and the one located on the dash causes condensate from those ice cold drinks to steadily drip onto the console. Trying to maneuver your cup or can into this holder requires a well orchestrated dance between your fingers and the holder. The base fabric is functional and recommended if you don't like cold seats in the winter and hot seats in the summer. While specified as a five seater, you're lucky to fit four in some level of comfort due to the smaller interior dimensions of this sedan. Hiding inside the stark interior are a myriad of air bags ready to protect occupants in the event of frontal or side impacts, just like Volvo's high end models. Exterior color selections are not as nice as the upscale Volvo's and trying to select a color that this sedan looks great in is somewhat limited. Moving towards the trunk you'll find that it has low entry and a clean finish. Just be careful not to drag items across the rear bumper since the paint is fairly soft there and very susceptible to scratching. 

FEATURES 
The base S40 comes standard with high end features such as tilt wheel, automatically controlled air conditioning, keyless remote entry, cruise control, outside temperature gauge (not very accurate), custom alloy wheels and integrated stereo. Watch out if you're looking for an aftermarket, in-trunk CD changer since none exists. If you must have this option, you'll have to work through the dealer and belly up over $1,000 for the Volvo factory unit that requires satellite uplinks to install. This mini-Volvo really tries to compare favorably to its larger counterparts. 

PERFORMANCE 
Turn the key of this four cylinder turbo and your immediately greeted with a somewhat buzzy and rough idle. Once you take off, the power is smooth and strong. Like other Volvo turbos, the turbo lag is minimal and the power curve is well suited for this class of vehicle. Assembled from various car company components, the five speed automatic shifts effortlessly and seamlessly. Power up steep grades is excellent and this little Volvo scoots up any road in good fashion. While there is just a bit of torque steer on hard acceleration, the handling in the S40 is predictable and somewhat on the sporty side. The overall S40 package provides a good, strong level of performance for everyday driving chores. The overall "fun" factor on a scale of 1 - 10 is about a "7" on my scale. 

RELIABILITY 
After a year of ownership, a few nagging issues have arisen. While the paint was impeccably perfect (except for previously mentioned shadows)on delivery, it does seem prone to light scratching as are most bright red cars. The fuel gauge had refused to work accurately since the car was delivered but Volvo has indicated that a fix has finally been made available. The power radio antenna mysteriously bends and bows for no known reason and I've already had to replace the mast once. Most disturbing is that after 15,000 miles, the brakes seem to have worn out and the front tire, even after being rotated, have gone past the wear marks. In just a year, it looks like I'll be shelling out over $800 for brakes and tires. When I questioned Volvo, they said that 15,000 miles on a set of four wheel disc brakes was normal. In addition, when I asked Volvo and my local mechanic if I could get low dusting brake pad replacements they both said no, that is unless I wanted to sound like a school bus stopping. Geeez, my 2000 GMC Yukon has 27,000 miles on it and the tires are fine and the breaks are still great. Volvo has been notorious for brake related problems (warped rotors etc.) and they really need to get a grip on this problem. 

BOTTOM LINE 
If you're looking for a safe, dependable and sporty sedan, give the S40 a serious look. It appears that Volvo dealers are continuing to discount this vehicle so be prepared to see this impact its long term resale value. Before you buy this mini-Volvo, just keep and open mind and be prepared to deal with the shortcomings I've mentioned. Maybe with some luck, Volvo will strive to improve the S40's flaws. In any case, happy motoring!

            
<label> No
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<