DOC>
<DOCID> 9001 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Kia_Sportage </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_115807653508 </URL>
<TEXT>
            After the second tranny failure we decided to donate our Mitsubishi Expo to charity and go with a Brand new vehicle. 
After price shopping and a little product research we settled on the 2000 Kia Sportage. Of course we expected to make some adjustments but over all the Kia was a disappointment. First thing we noticed was the poor acceleration. I'm no engineer but I think they should have put a larger engine in this vehicle. Not that the vehicle weighs much but it drives as if you have a sail on the roof. More horsepower would probable have improved the gas mileage, which I'm assuming the engineers where trying to do with that little engine. 

Since my wife was to be the primary driver she liked the high seats which allows you to see over the steering wheel very well. And it was easy to maneuver in and out of tight parking places, unfortunately that ability also made it unstable for winding mountain roads. The tight wheel base and over all height of the vehicle makes the center of gravity too high for quick turns, something if I had known about would have steered me away before the purchase. I suppose they wanted to give it more headroom, but the trade off of safety isn't worth it. 

Since we didn't have a lot of money to spend ours didn't come with a fully loaded package which means we didn't have 4 wheel drive. I mention this because the first time I tried to drive it on the snow I was cut off by a Jeep Cherokee which pulled in front of me and proceeded to stop. Of course when I tried to maneuver around her I lost complete control, mind you that we were on an interstate hwy. And she did what she did because the vehicle in front of her had lost control as well. Anyhow if it looks like a duck but can't swim it ain't no duck, and this vehicle looks like a jeep but can't handle the road like one so you get the point. The Cherokee wasn't touched but my poor li'l Kia slammed into the guard rail and then bounced off and slid passed the Cherokee sideways, while the driver looked at me and mouth her apologies pointing to the other vehicle which was spinning around. It's  driver stopped while I slid passed it and then finally I regained control and set off for home. I'm thinking that the driver of the Cherokee must of thought I was driving a 4X4 and wouldn't have had any trouble. As I said it looks like a Jeep, but it doesn't handle like one. 

Other problems such as rear seating comfort is non existent for any one over 4 feet tall. I know this from my kids complaining if we had to make a trip lasting 30 minutes or longer.
Although there is some storage room in the back I have seen larger trunks in smaller cars, not to mention the inconvenience of having to swing the spare tire away and use the ignition key to get to it. 

A year after we bought it we got a letter from the dealer offering us 5k for it on a trade in. This news made us feel jilted as we realized the the resale value was going to be low. And that was before the accident.

Update:

OK some confusion as to more horsepower improving gas mileage? With the Sportage I think it would because you have to really floor it to accelerate and compete with other vehicles. I used to average 15 MPG in a Large Chevy Van that I drove from house to house, it had a big V8 engine and had to haul about 1,500 lbs. of tools and supplies. 
The Sportage with it's small 4 cylinder engine only averaged 18 MPG on the highway, or in town. I attribute this to the poor aerodynamics that the smaller engine was straining against. 

Would having 4 wheel Drive capabilities have made a difference in that situation? I think so the Cherokee wasn't having any problems. And I am not exactly a novice when it comes to driving in snow, this was my 1st accident in about 12 years and only my second accident due to poor road conditions. By the way this was the 1st snow of the season and it had just started. 

Ok so maybe the Sportage isn't any worse than other SUV's when it comes to stability but there were times when I felt as if the wind was going to blow me over and the sensation heightened when I was traveling some of NC's winding roads. It's been a few years since we owned the Ford Bronco II but I don't ever remember getting the same sensation.

I hope these additional comments will help clear any confusion, and I appreciate the feed back. I'll try to be more thorough in future reviews. 
            
<label> No
<rating>  1.0

</DOC>
<