DOC>
<DOCID> 9877 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Pontiac_Grand_Am_GT </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_50843258500 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My wife and I decided to get a new car. We had our first child on the way, and the car that we had at the time (1995 Hyundai Scoupe) was a little small for a family. So we decided to go car shopping. We had looked around a little, and decided to go to the local Pontiac dealer. Once we arrived there, they had a row of about 8 Grand Am's sitting out in front of their store. Once we seen them, we were very pleased with the way they looked. I had wanted something sporty, and she wanted something more family oriented, so we looked at the 4 door version of the Grand Am Gt's. They happened to have one on the lot, so we took it for a test drive. Instantly we both fell in love with the car. I loved the power difference and she loved having more room, something which the Hyundai lacked. We bought it feeling that we had made a good purchase. I have an aunt and uncle who have owned Pontiacs (Bonneville, and Grand Prix), and they had great success with them. Well, we had the car for roughly about 2 months and the service engine light came on. Thinking that it might have been in need of an oil change or something, we took it in to the dealer to have the oil changed and see if that was what caused the check engine light to come on. When we picked it up later that day, the tech that checked it out said that it had a bad sensor, and that he had replaced it. Well, we had the car for about a week and it came on again. We made arrangemnts to have him look at it again. As it turns out, the sensor that he had replaced went out again. We were starting to wonder about it then. We figured that it was just some freak chance that those two parts went out, no big deal. Five months later, we went on a little trip, just a little over 2 hours one way. Once we arrived at our destination, while sitting in the parking lot of the hotel and the car off, the dome light just fell out of the ceiling. I didn't want to fool with it because I had paid alot of money on this car and I shouldn't have to fix anything on it. So we drove all the way home the next day with the dome light hanging out of the ceiling. We then had to set up an appointment to have that put back in. At this time, the car has roughly about 14,500 miles on it and it sounds as though the rotors were bad. When we took it to the dealer, he said that the rotors were completely wore out and that the brakes were wore down to 30%. He asked if we rode the brakes unnecessarily or hit them hard, but with a toddler in the car most of the time, you have to be a careful driver. Not to mention we want to have a car to drive, not tear up. We ended up having to replace the rotors and brake pads. At this point I was ready to trade off the car, but my wife was willing to give it one last chance. Then a few months later, she was taking our son to his sitters house, and when she stopped a stop sign, the car just died. She checked the gas guage and it registered at just under a half tank, so she thought something was wrong under the hood. She had them come out and tow the car to the dealer. Once it got to the dealer, they put it on the diagnostic machine and it came back that the fuel sender unit had went out. Now I'm no mechanic, but that sounds like something rare that goes out. The tech that worked on her car that day said that they happened to have one in stock that was supposed to be put on the following week, so he put it on and reordered another one. Then when we went to pick up the car, I asked him if this was going to be a persistent problem or not. As it turns out, there was a third person the week before that had the same problem go out on their car, also. We have had the car 1 year and 2 months and have already had the car in the shop more times than all previous vehicles we had owned combined. If this is the kind of problems we are going to have with the car just a little over a year old, then we will trade it off. But the bad thing is that the car, fully loaded and only 18,000 miles, only books for $15,000, and we still owe around $20,000. All in all, I would definitely not recommend this car to anyone unless they want to just throw their money away.
            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<