DOC>
<DOCID> 10344 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Toyota_Corolla </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-6FF7-37043405-3A4A3C78-prod5 </URL>
<TEXT>
              I recently took the 2001 Toyota Corolla for a test drive with every
  intention of purchasing.  My past two cars have been Toyotas (Tercel
  Wagon/Camry), and they are very reliable vehicles. However, this
  being my first new car purchase in several years - I decided to make
  a thorough comparison of the market before buying.  The money for
  an &quot;economy car&quot; today is a significant investment, and the market
  for these cars has evolved into a different beast as of the last
  ten years.  The Corolla was one of six cars I test drove and
  researched; It was among the Honda Civic, Mazda Protege, Nissan Sentra,
  Dodge Neon, and Ford Focus.  

  The Toyota was definitely nicer, more well-thought out in terms
  of interior design and style than its main counterpart - the Honda
  Civic.  It has a simple, stylish interior design.  The dash is
  nicely presented, easy to operate controls.  However, Toyota has
  yet to try and expand the interior to more comfortable dimensions.  It
  does have a slightly cramped feel, and the back would be best suited
  for those with only small children.  Heat will cook you on high.
  Did not test the air - as it was 22 degrees outside and snowing.

  This is a peppy, fun car to drive.  Agile and smooth ride; the manual
  5 speed transmission provided an amply powered driving experience.  The
  handling is acute, crisp, clean.  I test drove it over some steep
  New England Hills and the standard 1.8 liter engine handled each with
  no strain.  As I said, the weather took an inclement turn and the
  car handled well in the snow.  The all season included radials seemed
  a bit sparse for my neck of the woods, but tires are easy enough
  to replace.

  Exterior design is simple and predictable.  You may have difficulty
  finding your car in the parking lot between the vast sea of other
  Corollas and Civics.  However, you can rest assured that there is
  a reason that this car appeals to the masses.  Reliability, reliability,
  reliability!!!  It is a nice feeling to have a car that you know
  will start (in my eleven years as a Toyota owner I was never let 
  down once!)  It also has amazing gas mileage, and will probably exceed
  the posted expectations (I believe in the range of 33 city/42 hw). 

  Overall, the Toyota Corolla is a sweet little car.  It delivers
  what it promises, and will get you where you are going economically,
  agilely, and dependably.  I believe anyone who makes the decision
  to purchase this automobile will be probably more than satisfied
  with their decision.  

  HOWEVER, here I must digress.  I did not purchase this little car, as
  where my original intentions.  The market for this type of small
  sedan has become increasingly competitive, and many vehicles are
  offering equipment and creative design to entice buyers away from the
  big two (Toyota and Honda).  In my testing and research, the Corolla
  came as my fourth choice.  Despite all of the attributes above (and
  I am trying to be fair - Toyota has served me well), I was ultimately
  lead elsewhere by the following;

  small interior, cramped backseat
  boring styling
  options adding up to a relatively high sticker price for the class
  definite small car feel

  I found the redesigned Nissan Sentra to offer a much better overall
  package in its GXE model for standard equipment and interior space with
  a similar record of reliability.  (air, keyless entry, cd, power locks,
  mirrors, etc..for about 13,500).  This came in at number three.

  The Mazda Protege is a bit more expensive,(though when you start
  adding options to the corolla it starts approaching a similar
  price) but a much larger interior and more solid overall feel.  The
  2001 redesigned models have yet to be released, however, so those
  considering a small sedan purchase might want to wait for more
  standard features.  Number two.

  The Ford Focus SE.  My personal number one.  The car I bought and
  very happily own.  Largest interior in its class.  Sleek and
  simple inside in out.  The seats are slightly raised and comfy.
  Yummy, sweet offering (I know, I know - Ford's record of
  reliability - I must admit it did give me pause).  Small car,
  bigger more expensive car feel.  

  I should note that I am adding the information about these other
  cars under this review for the Toyota Corolla because I am 
  assuming readers will be seeking to make an informed purchase
  among this class of cars.  My final recommendation would be
  to thoroughly research and test drive the cars on your own.  The
  cars in this class are much more competitive, exciting, and better
  built than even of those a decade ago.  You may be surprised at 
  what you find and what you buy.  I know I was!!!

  

  
  

  

  <br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<