DOC>
<DOCID> 11181 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/_Kodak_196_0756__618404 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_97077464708 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Last Mother's Day, instead of my typical gift certificate to the spa, my husband and son got me my first digital camera.  I was quite thrilled.  My husband, after talking to the Sears sale associates for a while decided upon the <b> Kodak DX3700 Digital Camera</b>, which we have found overall to be a good choice for our family.  

I have simple digital camera needs, and simple understanding.  I mainly wanted to be able to load pictures of stuff we wanted to list on Ebay, and I wanted to be able to snap quick pictures for friends and family of the goings-on here.  All of our family are a few states and many hours away, and I am horrible at taking regular photographs and getting them developed.  Since everyone we know know has email, we thought being able to snap pictures of our son and send them to people so they could keep update to date of his growth and funny little moments would be especially nice.  

I won't claim to be a digital expert.  Many features we don't even use, but I can tell you about my experience.  The pictures display on the computer very clear, and come with Kodak's PictureMaker software (which we have overall found very easy to use).  

The initial purchase comes with:   the camera with lens cap with string and wrist strap, a Lithium battery,  USB cable,  video cable, instruction manual and dock insert (this goes with the dock which you may end up buying - we did).  The dock is pictured here also and is the thing the camera rests on that allows it to charge - we went back the same day and purchased it! The dock also makes uploading the pictures take just a push of one button (found on the front of the dock itself).  Sometimes I have to push this button twice for it to actually start the process, but it has always performed the job.  

You need to have Windows 98 or higher, MAC computer (which we have and this camera works fine with), CD Rom Drive, unoccupied USB port, and a 16 bit or higher color monitor.  We did not purchase the memory card and so the camera holds up to 6 pictures at a time. 

The flash has 3 options - red eye, auto, and off.  Generally we pick the option that utilizes the red eye and therefore flashes for a moment before actually taking the picture.  

It has an LCD screen that is about 1.6 inches and allows you to see the picture being taken and also to quickly view the picture for a moment when first taken.  The picture though shows up blurry at first and then focuses in.  It stays visible for about 15 seconds and then is stored in the camera's memory.  In those 15 seconds you can choose to delete the picture by hitting the Delete button found on the back of the camera (it always gives you the option to make sure you want to delete something). This happens for each picture, making the whole process of looking through multiple pictures a little time consuming but not impossible.   I like this feature overall, but my eyes do get confused for a moment when the picture first appears blurry. 

After taking the pictures, it's important to remember to turn the camera off - but if you should forget the camera will turn itself off in from 15 minutes of its last use (another nice feature).

The lens cover is a nice feature but it is often in the way when trying to dock the camera.  I often have to loop it up and around the top of this camera to make sure it is out of the way.  

Pointing and shooting the camera is a breeze - just one silver button on the top to push.  The Power button is easy to find at the top backside of the camera.  I do notice it is not always easy to turn on with a simple touch - I often have to press and re-press the button to make sure the camera is actually on.  When it turns on at first the light turns red, then green.  The camera has 3 modes on a slide that goes both ways - we use the main features of taking a picture or viewing stored pictures.  An indicator of the battery life shows at the bottom of the screen, along with a number of how many pictures have been taken.  

The camera is lightweight and easy to use and carry.  It seems to be a simpler camera in that the major buttons are in easy to use and find/common places, and that there are not too many features or buttons to have to press or regulate.  As someone who just wants a quick way to use a digital camera, it has totally met my needs.  

We have up to 6 pictures we can take before the memory is full (this is without the card, we never did buy one to hold more pictures).  I like that you can take pictures like a regular camera, there is a delayed flash, and even a basic zoom area.  Within seconds the picture I took flashes for a brief while before blackening off the screen.  At that time I can delete it quickly if I want.  If I miss that opportunity I can always slide the switch over and see all the pictures at once and delete from there.  

After 6 pictures we load the camera into the dock (we had to buy the dock separetely and feel it's a neccessary purchase for both charging the camera, loading the pictures, and keeping the camera in a safe and ready to use location).  It also came with Kodak PictureMaker software, which allows us to modify our pictures, and save them in a few different fashions.  

The software allows us to crop, edit, change the colors or effects, remove any red eye, make memory pages (A feature I have not used) or delete the pictures - mostly we just position it the correct way and save or delete.  We have not printed any pictures but most often use them to load onto Ebay or send pictures of current happenings to friends and family.  All the pictures seem to come through clearly and with no difficulty.  

From there the pictures are stored onto our harddrive and we send as attachments to emails we are sending out or upload during Ebay postings. 

For us, owning the <b>  Kodak DX3700 Digital Camera</b> has made our lives a lot easier.  We can sell better on Ebay.  We can in minutes show relatives our son's latest antics.  We have been able to send quick pictures to friends of items around our house that we happen to be talking about.  This camera has met our needs well and we are pleased with the purchase.  
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<