DOC>
<DOCID> 11765 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec-Photo-Cameras-All-Kodak_DC3200 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_93931671172 </URL>
<TEXT>
            You probably won't find tis dinosaur of a digital camera in Wal-Mart, but you may run into it on Ebay like I did, in case you do, here is a run-down to help you decide if you want to part with your cash. 

When I went shopping for my camera I wasnt planning to frame anything, I just wanted a point-and-shoot for pictures to post on Ebay, so I went to Ebay!

I picked up this camera for around 75$, which wound up being a great investment, I have made much more than that on Ebay because of this camera.

The first thing that I noticed out of the box was lack of a lens cap, which kinda blows, but I have found that this camera will take a beating, and with, or without that cap, it will keep on clicking away! So I loaded up the 4 AA batteries and started snapping pics. The dc3200 offers 1 Megapixel, which makes for decent pictures for a point and shoot. I tried out the flash and found that almost 100% of the time it overexposes, so I had to put a piece of black tape over a portion of it to help that. There is also probably a second shutter lag, so taking moving shots is very difficult. The next thing I checked out was the 2x digital zoom, when you use this option you must have the best quality selected (which takes up more space) and have the LCD on (which takes more power), BUT having this feature on a 75$ camera outweighs these problems in my opinion. This feature worked like a charm, now keep in mind, it is only 2x, so it wont zoom across the street, but if you have something small that you want a little more detail of, it is good for that. So as I am snapping pics I went through the menu, you have just the basics there, you can adjust pic quality, and white balance, you can also switch from preview (preview pic before taking it) or quickview (see pic for a few seconds after taking it) or both. Also you can turn the LCD on and off by hitting select, which really helps battery life. The camera has 2mb of mem. built in, so you can usually take around ten pictures, but you can upgrade and stick a compact flash card in, which is great for such a cheap camera.

So now I have taken my pics, time to load them to my PC. This is where the first con comes, the serial connection is rather slow, so if you have ten pictures, you should find something to do while they transfer, because it could take around ten minutes. The good thing is that the software installs very easily, and is simple and straight to the point, once your pics load you point and click to send them to your pc. But this is where you need to be careful, I made the mistake of walking away from the camera, and leaving it there all night, the LCD screen automatically turns off after a few seconds in transfer mode, but the little LED flash battery status light stays on, which unveiled this camera's major flaw to me, battery life.  With frequent use you could easily change the batteries in this camera twice a week, which can get expensive. There is a DC in plug on the camera, but the adapter is sold seperately. The battery consumption on this camera is its one major flaw, every other part of this cameras performance should be expected for the price you will pay, and performs well for the money, but the battery consumption is terrible.

You can also go into pic review mode and look at and delete pictures you have saved on the camera, it is very easy and user friendly. 

I think that went through everything, so here is your breakdown:

Pros:
Rather compact
Durable
Decent pic quality
2x digital zoom
LCD preview and quickview
Easy to install and use software
Low price
Comes with wrist strap

Cons:
BATTERY CONSUMPTION
No lens cap
Slow Transfer rate
Flash almost always overexposes (but you can turn it off if you want)

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<