DOC>
<DOCID> 11777 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Honda_Prelude </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_7411109508 </URL>
<TEXT>
            If you have read the very first opinion I ever posted on this site, then you know what a fan I am of the Honda Prelude.  MY Honda Prelude that is--a 1990 SI that has provided almost 11 years of trouble-free and enjoyable service to myself and one previous owner.  For quite a while I have wanted to compare my old 'lude with the new incarnation--but West Virginia dealers carry very few of Honda's sporty hardtop.  But now that I am in a warmer locale, new Preludes are easier to come by, and I took the opportunity to put one to the test earlier today.

My Test Car
I tried two 2001 Preludes--a satin silver coupe with sequential sport shift automatic and an electron blue pearl with manual transmission. Both cars come with a black interior (the only color available for Prelude)

Exterior Appearance
The Prelude is an extraordinarily handsome automobile in my eyes.  The sides of the car are free of molding, allowing a smooth appearance. The large headlights and sculpted hood make the front of the car aggressive without buying into normal sport car gimmicks.  Sixteen inch alloy wheels are standard. The Prelude should appeal to any buyer who wants a sporty appearance without spending a fortune and without looking like a high school student. And for those who want what the Prelude offers with a little more "Splash"--rest assured, there is a veritable fount of aftermarket companies that specialize in all things Honda.

Interior
The interior of the Prelude was the biggest disappointment I have ever suffered at an auto dealership.  The standard cloth (leather, a feature very low on my wish list, is not available from Honda--again, aftermarket suppliers can accomodate that request) is durable and attractive, with contrasting pattern in the seat centers to complement the solid black bolsters.  The dashboard is simply laid out, with all controls in easy reach.  One of Honda's quirkiest features is a tendency to place moonroof controls just above the drivers left knee--I would prefer to see them on the roof.  As with my 1990 model, the sunroof slides only--no tilt feature.  

The standard AM/FM CD features "Honda Acoustic Feedback." The dealer explained that this somehow monitors cabin sound, allowing the small space to "sound" larger. Whatever.  The system did have a nice sound, though and true audiophiles might want to add on an accessory cassette or six-disc in dash changer.  

The seats were comfortable, but lacked the firm thigh and shoulder bolstering that I am used to in the 1990 model.  This is a big deal only in cornering, where I worried that I would slide off the seat. Honda should never have eliminated the adjustable bolstering system in used in older generations. As usual with Preludes--the backseat is practically non-existent.  Small children only!

My biggest complaint from the interior is how plasticy it was.  The dashboard was a huge sheet of dull black, and there was no cloth anywhere on the doors.  Optional are carbon fiber or wood trim--which might help the situation, but overall the interior was far too economy class.  

Driving the Prelude
Both Preludes I drove feature a 200-hp four cyclinder VTEC engine.  I recently drove the 200 horse Accord Coupe--a larger car, and expected to be thrown against the back of my seat in the Prelude.  Somehow, it felt LESS powerful than its big sister.  Another big disappointment.  The sequential sport shift--an automatic/cluthless manual transmission, was smooth shifting in AUTO mode.  Upshifts in manual were flawless, but downshifts were herky-jerky.  I was much more impressed (am I about to say this?) with the similar system offered on the new Hyundai XJ300.  
Wanting to give the standard manual a try, I climbed behind the wheel of a second Prelude--more power was evident, and the five-speed manual was perfection--but the Prelude still seemed beneath the Accord Coupe.  
The upmodel Prelude is the Type-SH.  Added dollars get you a standard spoiler, leather shift knob, and Active Torque Transfer--a feature that assists in cornering and compensating for understeer.  The dealer all but told me that the SH package was a waste of money, and I tend to agree. 

While the Prelude is a great car all around, Honda has shot itself in the foot by offering it as a $25,000+ sports coupe. The Accord is more luxurious, more enjoyable to drive, and priced slightly under the Prelude.  Honda has plans to discontinue the Prelude at the end of the current body style's run and create a new sport coupe--combining the best of the Civic SI and Prelude into one package priced around $20,000.  Let's hope that this new model keeps the best of the venerable Prelude, and improves upon its obvious flaws.

            
<label> No
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<