DOC>
<DOCID> 11882 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/509166_Agfa_ePhoto_780 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-4068-14A3511F-395FC60D-prod5 </URL>
<TEXT>
            After wetting my feet in the digital photography realm with an inexpensive Agfa ePhoto Smile, I decided to stick to the same brand and move upwards on the ladder to find a more versatile camera. I chose the 780c because it was still very reasonably priced ($221 dollars) and I was already confident that Agfa made a good product.

Happily, I was not proven wrong. The Agfa 780c takes incredible pictures. You can choose the picture quality on the 780c- which results in 96 low quality pictures, 36 medium quality pictures, 24 high quality pictures, or 11 extremely high quality pictures. Even on the worst setting, the colors have amazing depth and clarity. On the best setting, the photographs look so real and lifelike, it seems you could reach out and touch the object in the image. The lowest quality images are slightly fuzzy, but still clear enough to make out details.

The 780c comes with a variety of options, not the least of which are the four flash settings. Automatic detect lets the camera gauge whether a flash is needed, on just sets it to flash automatically, red eye fill does just that (I have yet to take a red-eyed picture with this camera!) and off, if you don't feel the need to use it at all.

There is an LCD display on the back of the camera to let you see what your picture will look like, or you can use the standard viewfinder, as if it were a regular, standard camera. The LCD screen is very clear, and it's on this that you can navigate some of the other functions the 780c has. You can preview or delete all the photos you've saved, and lock photos to make sure they can't be deleted. There's a ten second timer, making it easy to pose photos including yourself. 

The 780c has very soft, one touch buttons that are easy to use, its design is very attractive, and the camera is quite durable. It weighs no more than a standard 35mm camera, and includes a case and carrying strap for easy transport.

To upload pictures from the 780c, the included software makes this extremely simple. It has a very intuitive interface, and finding and downloading pictures is easy. The way it saves photos is a little odd- you have to pay attention to the folder it saves them in, because you're not given an option to save them in any directory but their own, but once in that folder, you can reopen the JPGs in any graphics software. The included software also allows you to do minor adjustments before saving photos- rotating, color correction, contrast and balance correction, though I've found that the only one of these tools I need is the rotate tool. The color and balance have always been superb.

To make the 780c even more accessible for use when away from the computer, all of its photos are stored on photodisks, about the size of a postage stamp. It comes with one, which can hold up to 96 low quality pics or 11 extremely high quality pics. Additional photodisks are approximately thirty dollars, which does seem steep, but compared to film and processing fees, the price is quite reasonable. Especially since the photodisks can be re-used!

The only real downside to the 780c is a problem that's endemic with most battery-driven peripherals for computers- it eats batteries! The camera takes 4 AA batteries, and if you're only taking photographs with it, that's great. However, once you hook it up to the computer (via a serial port connection) it drains the batteries very quickly. A universal adapter with a 6.5v connection would minimize battery use, as there is an AC port on the camera. (You can also view your pictures on a tv with the included AV cables, but I've never tried it, and can't imagine why I'd want to!)

I highly recommend the 780c for anyone looking for a reasonably priced, high performance digital camera.<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<