DOC>
<DOCID> 11961 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1996_Pontiac_Sunfire </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-659E-3D8F9D7-39F6E15A-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            It was January 1997 and my '92 Sunbird had a cracked head which needed replacement to the tune of $2200.00 (had run it out of oil in 95 degree weather on a lonely highway in Maine 2 summers before, surprised it lasted that long afterwards).  So I had it towed to the GM, Pontiac dealership near my home and stopped in after work with the intention of trading it as is and picking up something else.  

The lot was mostly filled with Sunfires and my girlfriend at the time had just bought one which she seemed happy with.  The book value for the old Sunbird was about $3500.00 and the dealership offered me the difference between that and my repair estimate for my trade-in.  There were a lot of Sunfires on the lot and I noticed one on the sheet with low mileage which was selling quite a lot cheaper than the others so I had a look and a test drive.  

After the test drive I pointed out that the engine looked a little dirty (some salt stains) and that the car had been smoked in etc. etc.  Anyway I kept them there negotiating until 10:00pm that night (an hour and a half after the dealership closed) and walked away having purchased it for a price and for payments I was definitely happy with.  

The '96 Sunfire is a larger car than the '92 Sunbird I had just gotten out of which was by the way a true lemon.  Unfortunately the Sunfire has problems of its own, but I'll touch on those in a moment.  This is a fairly sporty looking car, but of course they are everywhere which completely obliterates any head-turning charisma which the car might otherwise command.  This wasn't the GT, but was a 5 speed.  I believe it had a 2.1 Litre 4 cylinder which wasn't bad (I think it was rated at 105 and 120 hp).  Acceleration and gas mileage were about as I would expect for a car that size.  In short it was a cheap way to get into something approaching sporty while still appearing practical.  This is a comfortable car to drive in and the controls are all well located.  I didn't have any frills or extra power options on mine such as power windows and doors, preferring at the time to minimize things that could break.  

I mentioned problems above and this car did have them.  I only owned the car for about 2 years and had a host of problems for a car as new as this one.  Luckily I had purchased the full extended GM Goodwrench warranty with full roadside assistance for about $1200.00 which turned out to be a very good decision.  During the brief time I owned this vehicle I had the fuel pump go on me while driving requiring a tow, the CD Player needed replacing, during a routing maintenance a $1200.00 problem with the steering mechanism was discovered (which was a safety risk), and the paint under the wheel wells began to flake off (this happened after a friend used a high-pressure, hot water engine sprayer to clean my car).  There were also a couple of recalls for electrical problems.  All of these things were however completely covered under warranty with a replacement vehicle being provided every time for the duration of the repairs.  One problem which was actually downplayed and downright denied as the official line from the dealership was that the valves started tapping at 60,000 kilometres.  I knew of about 1/2 dozen other people who had experienced the same thing with their Sunfires so I knew that GM was simply refusing to acknowledge this at the time.  They have since issued a voluntary recall for anyone who noticed this symptom with their Sunfire (which was caused by a design issue) wherein they will replace the cam).  

The bottom line with this car is that it wasn't a well built vehicle, but GM Goodwrench service and the warranty offered were probably enough to balance this out.  The particular dealership I dealt with was exceptional with their service and made the many repairs required on this vehicle as painless as possible which made up for the difference in product quality.  I have a Toyota now which is thus far the most well put together and reliable vehicle I have ever owned, but the Toyota dealership has been abysmal having ridiculously over inflated repair estimates, having nothing covered under their warranty (nothing ever goes wrong anyway) and have even tried lying to me about repairs needed... but that's of course another story.  All in all an affordable and decent car which has a few squeaks and may spend a bit of time in the shop, but if you've bought the warranty package you should be able to be relatively worry free.  I traded this car in for $200.00 less than I paid for it after 2 years, not because of problems with it, but because my financial situation was such that I was in the market for a more expensive car.  
The GM Dealership gets an A+ though.   Hell, they actually sent me flowers at work to congratulate me on my initial purchase when I bought this Sunfire.    
<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<