DOC>
<DOCID> 12102 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1990_Saab_900_Convertible </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_80655257220 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I drive a 1988 SAAB 900 Turbo convertible which is very much the same as the 1990 model, except it lacks the driver's side airbag and has the 2.0 litre engine instead of the updated 2.1 litre.  I also had a 1989 900S sedan prior to the 'vert.  The sedan was an automatic and the 'vert is a 5 speed so I've experienced both turbo/non-turbo and auto/5-speed models.

The automatic trans on these cars is a truly ancient design.  It's a 3-speed, so the car runs out of gears at highway speeds, and the revs increase to uncomfortable levels.  This is especially bad in case of non-turbo models.  With turbos, however, I've heard that the auto-trans gear ratios work well with the turbocharger, so acceleration is rather smooth, but at the end of the day it's still a 3-speed and not great for highway cruising.  The 5-speed is OK and, coupled with the turbo, gives adequate performance, not quite stellar by modern standards though.  For non-turbo models, the 5-speed is absolutely crucial, b/c without it the car is very sluggish.

SAABs have firm rides which overtime may translate into squeaks and rattles, but I haven't had any problems with that.  The interior of the convertible will naturally be noisier with the top up, and the car would shake more due to lack of rigidity common in 'verts.  Whatever the noise, once you turn on the stereo you'll be hardpressed to detect it.

The seats are truly comfortable and the dash layout, while unusual, works exceptionally well and is very user-friendly.  The cabin is tall but narrow, making for a very cozy feel and excellent visibility.  With the convertible, you'll have limited visibility in the rear and blind spots again common in 'verts.

The classic 900, as these cars are known, is a very reliable car provided it is not neglected or abused.  Unlike certain Japanese cars, SAABs break down if not maintained, so in that sense they are not suitable for those who only want a low-maintenance A to B transportation.
You have to be a car buff, and a SAAB aficionado to own a SAAB, and to put up with its needs and quirks.  

Repair costs are high, typical of European cars, but as I said routine maintenance will help you avoid potential wallet-busters.  When buying a used SAAB, make sure it has not been abused and if you have any doubts, take it to a SAAB mechanic for a pre-purchase inspection.

The auto trans is usually said to be one of the weak spots of the 900, although there have been some rather long-lived examples as well.  It all depends on how the car is maintained.  Turbochargers also give up the ghost quickly on abused cars, and they are expensive to fix.  The convertible top is hydraulically-operated, and will be expensive to repair if it doesn't go up and down as it should.  Excessively noisy operation is an indication of a top that is about to go.  Furthermore, I need to mention that nothing is cheap to fix on a SAAB, so if you are not mechanically savvy you may face large repair bills - hence my assertion that these cars are not for the faint of heart.  However, you can significantly reduce the cost of ownership by finding a reliable independent SAAB mechanic to work on your car instead of the dealer.

The classic 900 is a truly unique car, and the convertible is beautiful and has a norm-defying design.  If you want relative rarity, acceptable reliability, great safety, and distinctive styling, the SAAB 900 is for you.  These cars have ample amounts of character, something most German and Japanese cars desperately lack.  The only other brand that I regard as highly as SAAB is Alfa Romeo, but their cars though stunning, tend to suffer from sloppy Italian workmanship.  SAABs, on the other hand, are solid, dependable, and durable.  Take care of your 900 and it will run forever.   
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<