DOC>
<DOCID> 13302 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1997_Dodge_Stratus </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_82477092484 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I recently purchased an emerald green 1997 dodge Stratus.  I had been in the market for a second car (one with 4 doors this time) for a few months before i settled on this beauty.  I read alot of negative things about this car all over the internet, but the car i was looking at exhibited none of the problems prone to these vehicles.

Most of the reason I bought this car was because it had most of the major needed work done by the previous owner within the last 6 months.  These repars included Head gasket (2.4 DOHC motor), timing belt, cam position sensor, both O2 sensors, drive belts, and water pump.  These are problems all these cars face.  If you are looking to purchase a Stratus, make sure and do you homework and either add the replacement cost of these things (about 500 bucks at a local garage) or make sure they have been done already.

My Stratus has 60000 miles on it, and has every power option available in the base trim.  It also has aftermarket tinted windows all around, and came with a sporty looking car bra.  Shortly after purchasing the car, i noticed that its shifts were rather drawn out between first and second, and that it tended to "bump" down into first when stopping.  After some research, I discovered there is a TSB out on this car warning AGAINST the use of Dexron ATF.  Suspicious of the fluid in the tranny, i took it to the local lube shop and watched while they changed the fluid out and replaced it with ATF  3 (reccommended by chrysler).  within a thousand miles, the shifts smoothed out incredibly.  It still kinda bumps down into first when stopping but i'm willing to live with it for now.

I've put just over two thousand miles on the car over the past month, including three 8 hour round trip journeys.  The car behaved flawlessly.  My only complaint is that the road noise is atrocious!  I think its the cheapo snow tire look alikes that are on the car, but it was awefull!  Unless you are on the SMOOTHEST of roads, the noise is nearly unbearable.
I also noticed that the car seems to wind pretty high when at highway speeds (75-85).  at 80 it is turning at about 3100 RPM.  Granted the car doesn't red until six and a half, and it is only 4 cylinders, but i can't help but wonder if all those RPM's are good for the motor.

Things I like about this car:
It is d*mn sexy with tinted windows!  It looks like a sporty roadster, with the duckbill rear trunk lid.  Its almost like it has a built in spoiler.  Also love the fold down rear seat, that can be released from the trunk if necessary.  The seats provide a firm ride, and the handling is unbelievable!  Its almost reminicent of my nissan 300zx.  You can just throw this car at corners, and it just keeps asking for more.  I'd bet with at good set of touring tires it'd give any honda a run for its money on the G pad.
All the interior controls are right where you'd expect them to be, and while the cup holders may be a bit small, there are 4 of them.  Something my 97 Lumina and its single cupholder should be jealous of.

Negatives:
This car is a nighmare to work on.  Just looking under the hood you can see its not your dads Chevy.  The battery is soo well hidden, it has to be removed from the driver side wheel well.  To replace the drive belts, you have to support the motor while you remove a motor mount, and I wouldn't even want to think about doing the timing belt.  My car only has steel 14" wheels with plastic covers.  For a car that looks this sweet, those ugly plastic covers make it look cheap.  I'm going to swap them with the 15's found on the V6 model soon.  

Other than that, this car is a Gem.  be very careful before you buy one though.  Take a test drive to a good mechanic and have them check the car over before you even start talking price.  These cars are prone to head gasket failure just like the Neon, so be careful and look real close for any sign of oil leaks.  Also check the transmission for smooth shifts.  IF those check out, this could be great car.  I'll keep you informed as to how well mine holds up in a few thousand more miles.

Update!
---------
Well I feel like this is a bad omen since I'm back already with an unpleasant update.  As I sat waiting for a parking space the other day i heard a clunk, like I had run over something, but I was sitting still.  I immediatly turned off the car and popped the hood. Turns out one of my surpentine belts (there are 2 on this car) had split in half and flew off!  Lucky for me half of it was still there so I could nurse it home.  Turned out to be that it was rubbing on the other belt and it just degrated and fell apart.  I replaced the belt, but it was still rubbing.  I had a mechanic look at it and it turns out my Harmonic balancer needed replacement.  And it only needed replacement because when it was all apart (with the previous owner) for a timing belt, they used the wrong bolt to put it back together with!!  It only cost me a hundred bucks to fix, and wasn't really dodge's fault, just be weary of the mechanic you are taking your car to, and always ask to see the old part if you can. (try to have them tell you what was wrong with it in the first place.)  If you suspect foul play, take the part (its yours) to an auto parts place and ask them if its really crapped out.

On a closing side note,  If you can get your vehicle diagnosed (if your not a motorhead yourself), its always way cheaper to take the car to a garage where they will install parts you bring them.  That way you don't get ripped off and can get the parts at your local auto parts store for half the price of the dealer.  That way you only pay the garage for labor.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<