DOC>
<DOCID> 13947 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1990_Toyota_Supra </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-59FE-B3CF3B2-3A37D91F-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I have been in love with body of the Toyota Supra Mk III since the type first hit the streets in 1987.  I was absolutely no where near the level of financial prosperity required to purchase the car of my dreams, however, I knew that someday I would own one.

When I decided the time was right (my kids are old enough to ride the bus) to go after the cure to my mid-life crisis, I beat the pavement in search of a quality Supra for cost something less than an arm, leg, and first-born son.  I was surprised by the difficulty I encountered in finding the car, especially since I live in Southern California.  Many of the people that I encountered as owners of Mk III's were not even slightly interested in parting with their beloved Supra's.  This only wet my appetite further.  I had to have a Supra.

I test drove about seven cars before I finally came across the vehicle that I knew would be mine.  Once the deal was settled (never buy a car when you are in love), I happily drove home in my (new to me) baby.

This is a sweet ride.  The 1990 model I purchased was a loaded with just about all of the bells and whistles that Toyota offered sans leather.  I love the turbo whine and the Targa top is better to me than any convertible.  There has to be a better way to design the release of the top.  If you cannot get comfortable with the six-way power drivers seat and tilt/telescopic wheel, you just cannot be comfortable anywhere.  Sound is rather muted.  The ride is smooth and tranquil with some chassis vibration due to the age of the car.  The instrument gages are top notch with only the most non-essential components blocked from view.

The automatic climate control works beautifully.  A/C is excellent under all conditions with a strong but non-obtrusive blower.  Ergonomics are well thought out with the layout of controls always within reach of your fingertips.  Switches provide excellent contact allowing you to operate them without seeing them.

The rear seat is essentially useless for all but small children.  Placing adult friends in the rear seat for more than five minutes will test the limits of your relationship.  Rearward visibility is not that great but nothing that a stab of the gas and the whine of the turbo won't cure.

This car can roll once you get the tach up past 2800 rpm.  Prior to that, acceleration is tepid.  The sometimes clunky shifter does not help matters at all.  The clutch is very willing allowing for easy feathering and a powerful quick grip when required.  You will need a lot of practice to get this car off of the line fast.

The engine is smooth and well-matched to the 5-speed manual transmission.  Low-end torque is almost nonexistent, but I am told that this is easily remedied by after-market modifications.  The power just feels good in this car.  Not fast enough to scare the tame but fast enough to encourage spirited driving.

Ownership of all of these attributes doesn't come cheaply.  This has been the most expensive car to own I have ever possessed.  Parts are difficult to come by in most parts stores which relegates me to the dealership.  They will stick it to you.  The well thought layout of the interior does not continue under the hood.  Some of the most poorly placed parts and generally bad ideals I have ever witnessed are under the hood of this car.  Maintenance will be challenging for just about everything that you have to do to keep this baby running right.  Be prepared to shell out extra bucks if you can get a mechanic to do your work at all.  Most would rather work on easier projects.

As much as I love my Supra if I had it all to do over again I would not purchase another one.  Cost of ownership has just been too high.  Insurance, tires, maintenance, just about anything you need will cost you extra.

Potential Supra owners beware.  These cars have an extremely high propensity to experience blown head gaskets.  This will be an expensive repair ($1,000.00 - $1,400.00) best left to the extremely qualified.  There are some very effective steps to be taken (costly) that will cure this potential wallet drain, such as the installation of metal head gaskets and increased torque on head bolts.  Emissions testing (where required) is another problem for these cars.

The sound system is very weak.  There is not too much you can do to improve upon it without expensive modifications due to the Targa top and limited rearward space.  Controls of the head unit are well designed and would benefit tremendously from the application of strong, after-market speakers and amplifiers.  The problem is in where do you put it?

My Supra is ten years old and still looks absolutely sexy.  I believe that you have to go Italian to get more alluring lines.  Mk IV's are far superior in performance but in my humble opinion, are not good-looking cars sans modifications. 

If you want to be a Supra owner, welcome to the club.  Do your homework and stay far away from vehicles that do not have evidence of prodigious upkeep.  Avoid modified version like the plague.  Have a good mechanic check the car out and insist on a compression check.  If you are not prepared to give a car lots of TLC, then this is not the ride for you.  It has the legendary Toyota reliability only when given the proper care. <br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<