DOC>
<DOCID> 14110 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Toyota_Tundra </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_57697341060 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Having test driven all major competitors in this vehicle class, the Tundra in the V8 version was a clear choice for me. I observed noticeable differences between the Toyota Tundra and its competition. If you are in the market for a quality truck, do a close comparison check from the ground up. You will find everything from the frame, drive train, suspension, body and interior in the Tundra of far more superior quality and workmanship than its competition. The smooth transmission, quiet ride and surprisingly brisk acceleration was a clear cut above all other models I test drove.
SUSPENSION: Just take a look underneath the body frame and you will be impressed. It has a heavy duty single frame construction with substantial suspension support. The suspension is stiff but yet smooth. I'm a big dude so I jumped up and down on the bumper to get a sense of the amount of travel in the suspension and was duly impressed. The suspension appeared comparable to a heavier duty truck such as the F-250. You just don't feel it in the ride.   
POWER: Pulls strong and effortlessly at low RPMs. Has great torque and towing capacity. You wouldn't know you were towing a boat without seeing it in your rear view mirror. Conversely, its standard overdrive transmission saves fuel at highway speeds. (67 MPH @ 2000 RPM) Some vehicles occasionally downshift out of overdrive when climbing hills to maintain cruise control at highway speeds. Not this engine. It has alot of low end torque. Mine stays in overdrive even on the hills. 
FUN: I'll put my last paycheck on it it against any stock V8 truck (except the F-150 Lightnin' of course) from a red light. It's a safe bet from 0-60 against many of the cars on the road too. This 32 valve V8 truck will eat your tires, slick your brake pads and collect speeding tickets if you have a heavy foot. 
GAS MILEAGE- Prior to break-in I was getting about 16.5 MPG but after 4K miles, my gas mileage has improved to 18+ MPG....not bad for a V8 truck.
RIDE: Drives comparable like a full size sedan. Seats are slightly firm but comfortable. The ride is so smooth that the slight firmness of the seats has not been an issue for me even on trips. Very quiet unless you kick it, then it sounds like a race car. 
BODY: Cargo area is not the full 8 feet capacity on the Access cab version due to the extended cab. I have found the 6.5 feet of cargo area adequate. The back seat is not big enough for full size adults except for short trips. For me that's OK because I seldom have passengers. My golf clubs fit just fine back there though. My wife and I really likes the 60/40 seat design. The center console flips down for a comfortable armrest/cargo area during the week when I commute to work. On the weekends when my wife and I have occasion to take a ride in the Tundra, that same center console flips back up enabling my wife to sit in the middle of the seat "old style" snug up next to me.  
MY ONLY COMPLAINT: Toyota's optional bedliner. If you are considering a bedliner, steer clear of the factory drop in plastic bedliner. Though it is snug on the sales lot, over time it will definitely shrink due to weathering and begin to slip and slide around your bed as much as an inch when you go over rough terrain or bumps. This is bad because it wears out the body's finish where it grinds on the contact points between your liner and truck bed. Mine did this three months after I drove it off the sales lot. I returned it to the dealership for replacement only to find out this is a common problem with all drop in bedliners that are not anchored with screws. My two options are 1) Get a spray in bedliner or 2) Put 3 or 4 anchor screws in the existing drop-in bedliner. Recommendation: Get a spray in liner from the start. (Most come with a lifetime warrantee too.) 
RECOMMENDATION:  There are many good trucks out there with more options available but do yourself a favor....check out the Tundra before you buy. You pay for what you get. It's only a few extra dollars more for a better quality vehicle like the Tundra will last you a long time and serve you well. 

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<