DOC>
<DOCID> 14265 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Cadillac_Escalade </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_86171487876 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Cadillac Escalade, 2003

The Biggest Cadi ever.

I have owned several models of Cadillac's over the years and I had driven every models made since the 
Mid-70&#146s with one exception and this was the Escalade.

The first time I saw an Escalade was in San Diego on the Interstate. I was driving my old 1997 Explorer and happen to look in my rear view mirror. At first I did not recognize the vehicle, but I knew it was a big SUV and it was coming real fast.

Eventually it passed me; it must have been going at about 120 miles per hour. At that time I did not have a chance to really appreciate the Escalade it zoom by me too fast. Then I looked again in my rear view mirror and guess who was coming doing about 130 miles per hour. You guest it, Smokey, they caught up with the driver and when I eventually passed them the police officers were in the process of returning to their car with the drivers document.

Last year I did not have a chance to test-drive an Escalade, the last demo had been sold. But a few days ago I was driving by a Cadillac dealer that I know real well, since 1991 I had purchased two cars there and when I was working they were one of my top accounts. 

What caught my eyes was a large banner that said, &#147Escalade 2003 are in&#148. I turned around and drove to the dealership, met with my old friend and after chewing the fat for a few minutes, I asked him if there was an Escalade available for a drive.

He said that the owner had one that was his demo and that it was getting washed, he went in the service bay area and the Escalade was ready. He got the key from the owner, popped in his office and said its my turn to buy you lunch, where do you want to go.

PRODUCT DESCRIPTION

For 2003 the Cadillac Escalade is available in 3 different trims. Offered are the basiv Escalade, the ESV and the EXT.

As far as SUV are concerned, the Escalade is very big. It has a curb weight of 5,809 pounds and a wheelbase of 116 inches, The Escalade measure 198.9 inches in length, 78.9 inches in width and 74.2 inches in height. So if you want to garage your new toy you better have an oversize garage. 

The Escalade is powered by a V-8 motor that develops a whopping 345 horsepower, that engine power does make the Escalade the most powerful vehicle in its class.

It is also equipped with a &#147All-Speed-StabiliTrack&#148 this is an exclusive stability control system, plus a &#147Road-Sensing suspension&#148 both these system exclusive to the escalade will make your drive more comfortable and will give the driver much better control over this oversize beast.

For 2002, the folks at Cadillac have added to the already very long list of standard features a few extra luxurious features. With the 2002 model you will get The Ultrasonic Rear Parking Assist, OnStar and Virtual Advisor Services and a new Driver Information Center.

THE INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR

The interior:

As you enter the Escalade you know immediately that it is a luxury vehicle, why would a SUV have so much luxury, this beats me. I would certainly not drive the Escalade off-road, but that&#146s me.

After adjusting the power seat and the mirrors, the first I wanted to see how it worked was Ultrasonic Rear Parking Assist system, while waiting for my friend in his office, I had read in the pamphlet about it and I was curious to see how it would perform. It is definitely a great idea for this type a vehicle. When I write a review on SUV, I always make certain to mention about the danger of backing up with one, this system will help but it will take time to get use to it.

The Escalade 2002 comes with a new instrument panel, this panel is excellent, the driver has no problem seeing any of the gauges. All the control buttons are also easy to locate and are with reach of the driver.

The Escalade comes fully equipped with an extended list of comfort and safety standard features. The comfort features that were in the Escalade I drove were: air conditioning, power window, power locks, power mirrors, power seat, heated-leather seats, tilt steering, cruise control, AM/FM radio cassette,
 CD player, 11-speakers Bose sound system, rear window defroster, luggage rack and alloy wheels.

The only optional item listed for the Escalade is a power sunroof, the one I drove was also equipped with one.

Standard seating for this vehicle is eight, whether your are sitting in the front or the rear you will have enough head and legroom to be comfortable even for a long trip.

The exterior:

If there is one part I do not care for too much with the Escalade, it is its front headlight assembly. To me it seems that they could have come up with a much better looking assembly for such a luxurious vehicle.

The Escalade has a ground clearance of 8.4 inches and a standard towing capacity of 8500 pounds, this is also the top for its class.

Another fine innovation is that it comes with a one-piece lightweight lift-gate, which makes it easy to load from the rear.

TECHNICAL INFORMATION  

The Cadillac Escalade I drove had under the hood:

Engine: A 6.0-liter, V-8 motor that will develop 345 horsepower at 5300 RPM.
Transmission: 4-speed, All-Wheel-Drive, automatic transmission.
Brakes: 4-wheel disc brakes with ABS.
Tires: 265/70R16
Safety: Dual front airbags.
             Side airbags,
              Traction control system.
               Child safety locks.
              Keyless remote entry.
            Driver assist backing up system.

PERSONAL EXPERIENCE   

My friend and I had decided to have lunch at the San Diego Marina, this is one of our favorite spot. To get there you have a 30 miles highway drive from the north route and going back I drove on the south route which allows for city driving. 

The Escalade is definitely a superior vehicle in its class, on the highway it does not handle like a car; it handles like a luxury automobile.

As for driving within city streets, as long as you are aware of the oversize of the Escalade there should be no problems.
   
If you have the cash and you want to spoil yourself, go for it. 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<