DOC>
<DOCID> 16479 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/Canon_Digital_SLR_Camera___Camera_7508A013 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_70842224260 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My first digital SLR was a Canon EOS D30. It was at this point that I fell in love with digital. Images coming off the D30 were velvety smooth and printed to very large sizes with little or no loss in quality. 

But now? Oh boy. The photography world is in for a treat.

After reading about the D60 on the usual Digital Photography websites, I just HAD to get my hands on this camera. So I plinked down my credit card over at Ritzonline.com (yuck, never again), and waited for 2 months for my D60 to show up (I ordered early april, it arrived early june). 

First, the camera.

For those of you who are new to digital photography: This is not the camera for you. While this camera is capable of being used by even the most uninitiated novice in its "automatic" modes, its true power is only unleashed by someone who understands the basic principles of photography. If you aren't keen on what "Aperture", "Shutter" and "ISO" settings do to a photo, or how the three are related, then you are much better off getting a point and shoot camera. Digital SLR cameras often require a decent amount of post-processing work in an application like Photoshop, and these cameras are not best suited to snapshooters. If you don't want to have to spend time working on your images in an imaging application, you are much better off searching for a high-quality point-and-shoot, or advanced novice digital. 

But for those of you who shoot SLR's in general or with Canon SLR film cameras, the D60 will be welcome to your gear bag. It uses all Canon EF mount lenses, including the esteemed L class used by pros. The body itself is almost identical to the D30, looking like your standard film-based SLR novice-to-amateur body. It isn't built like a tank like the EOS 1v or 1D, but it looks as if it would withstand a rough ride here and there. 

Feature-wise, the D60 is certainly no slouch. The camera is capable of shooting 3 frames per second for up to 8 frames (in both RAW lossless compression mode and JPG, or even *both*), a big jump from the D30's 3-shot max in RAW. ISO speed can be adjusted from 100 to 1000, down from the D30's maximum of 1600. ISO 1600 shots on the D30 were overly noisy and barely usable anyway. Shutter speed can be adjusted from 30 seconds to 1/4000th of a second, definitely adequate for most uses. 

File formats supported with this camera are JPG and RAW, and the D60 is capable of shooting both formats at the same time. The CRW RAW file format has improved as well, now offering a near-3 megapixel embedded JPEG file, as well as adding extra exposure functionality to the RAW format itself. This makes the CRW RAW format an excellent digital "negative", allowing you to easily modify exposure compensation during your RAW conversion process, rather than relying on modifying the image directly. 

Battery life is amazing. You'll take hundreds of shots before having to switch, and i've gone for days at a time with 2 batteries using the BG-ED3 Portrait grip (same model as the one for the D30).

The back of the camera houses the LCD preview, a jog wheel, and of course the viewfinder. The display is very readable, even in daylight. The top-right LCD panel displays your shutter speed/aperture settings/exposures remaining as well as other status indicators. This is now backlit for night-time viewing, a nice little change from the D30. Aperture and shutter controls vary on the camera mode used. In "priority" modes, Shutter or Aperture value is selected with the main rotating wheel near the shutter depressor leaving the back jog wheel to control exposure compensation. In full manual mode, the 2 wheels independently control aperture and shutter. It takes a little getting used to if you're coming off a non-canon SLR, since most other brands have an "aperture ring" on the lens itself. 

The viewfinder display also has a small but important improvement. The 3 focus points in the viewfinder are now illuminated and show which point currently has focus lock on a half-depressed shutter. I can't tell you how nice this is. Aperture, Shutter and Focus lock indicators within the viewfinder are standard SLR fare.

Picture Quality

The D60 raises the bar in the picture quality department. Its 6.3 megapixel sensor creates velvety smooth low-ISO exposures printable at sizes up to 20x30 with ease. While ISO 200 seems noisier than the D30's ISO 200, the noise is certainly manageable. Noise levels at all other ISO settings are DEFINITELY reduced in comparison to its older brother, the D30. While the maximum ISO setting is now 1000, the shots at that ISO setting are far more usable than ISO 800 was on the D30.

That being said, you will have to take more into consideration when purchasing lenses for the D60. If you are coming off the D30 and have a set of consumer-grade lenses (such as the popular 28-135mm IS), you may be disappointed with their performance on the D60. While the D30 was a perfect match for Canon's mid-range consumer line, it really takes Canon's "L" series glass to really make the D60 shine. The D60's imager is capable of taking amazingly sharp pictures with the right lenses, and in my own opinion their consumer zoom lenses fall short. While there are still some prime lenses in their consumer lineup that work well with this camera (the 50mm f/1.4 comes to mind), you will see the most impressive results with Canon's more expensive lens lineup. 

With regards to the D60's CMOS imager, it is the same physical size as the imager in the D30. Since this imaging chip is smaller than a 35mm film frame, all your lenses' focal lengths are increased by 1.6x. While this is great for nature photographers who spend tons of money on long lenses, it's a slap in the face for landscape photographers who shoot wide angle. Even the widest available prime lens for the EF lineup (14mm) becomes a modest 22mm wide angle. While this is usable to the great majority, people who primarily shoot landscapes may want to think twice about going with a digital camera that has this kind of magnification factor. 

So. Is it worth the jump from the D30 to the D60? 

Absolutely. If you are the kind of person who likes enlargements on your photo printer, then the D60 will be right at home with you. In the digital world, there is no such thing as "too much resolution". It is obviously better to have more pixel data than less. The imaging sensor on the D60 is a sure winner. 

While the D60 has its flaws such as the 1.6x magnification factor for landscape shooters, its image quality leaves little to be desired. Images with the right lenses are crisp, sharp, and well saturated without being overly saturated. It may not be the FASTEST camera on the block like its faster sibling the 1D, but at nearly 1/3rd the price and 2 more megapixels worth of resolution, it's certainly worth a look if you take stills or portraits. 

For wildlife photographers, the increased magnification comes "free", meaning your 200mm lens is now a 320mm lens with no loss of quality. If you shoot birds or other wildlife, you will love this camera. 

If you're a film photographer, and have been waiting to go digital, 6.3 megapixel is now at-or-above comparable 35mm film quality. If you normally do the develop-and-scan routine, you will benefit greatly by going digital if you can afford to do so. Digital has now arrived as a suitable 35mm replacement. While it will not completely replace medium format, it WILL give it a run for its money. 

My official word to knowledgable photographers who can afford it: Buy this camera. 

Sample photos: http://www.karlsphotos.com - If you need full size samples, email me at karl@weckstrom.com.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<