DOC>
<DOCID> 17592 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Plymouth_Neon </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_6733729412 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I know, I know. It's a NEON. How could a lowly little econocar be considered fun and cool? I was surprised myself, but I swear it's true. This little car really 
surprised me with the things it had, the way it was built, and the way it handled. 
   
   
   Looks: I've always kind of been fond of it's cute, perky styling, and think that those redeeming qualities have been dulled somewhat in the new generation. The new Neons just don't look as happy as the last ones did. This particular model is a 1998 Plymouth Neon Espresso sedan, so it's got just a bit more pizzazz then the base Neons. Mine was a classy little Bright Platinum Metallic color, that with the Espresso package, added such sporting touches as foglamps, a "power hood bulge" (Chrysler's words--not 
mine), dual exhaust outlets, and a rear decklid spoiler. The wheelcovers aren't gonna garner looks from your buddies, but they really didn't look too bad on the lower-profile 14-inch Goodyears.And while it won't make you tremble in fear when you look 
in your rearview mirrors at it, it has slightly more road presence than it's non-Espresso brethren. It was a rather sharp-looking little car, if not a traffic stopper. 

   
   Interior: This is a compact car, so the interior is also a bit compact, but I found it to be really pretty roomy, and there's plenty of headspace (or at least there was for me). The generous glass area also served to make it a pleasant and roomy place to abide for hours. 
  
 The dash was set out very well, I thought. The flowing, contoured dash pod housed a very readable temperature gauge, gas gauge, speedometer (to 120mph!), and tachometer. 
  
 The rest of the dash consisted of the HVAC controls, in 4 large, easy knobs, and right below that was the pretty basic AM/FM stereo that still sounded pretty fair. It does have some bass, and has 5 memory settings. And below that was the ash tray and cigarette lighter that took seconds to heat up. I don't smoke, but find the cigarette portal to be a very handy thing at times. 

 I LOVED the bucket seats. Not only was I diggin' the sporty black cloth with the colorful accents (another trick touch, they have leather-looking black vinyl on the back of the seats that just really help set the interior off), I found them to be pretty comfortable too, for the most part. After a few hours in them though, the firmness of them kind of gets a little unacomadating. The back seats were stuffed the same firm way, but weren't as comfy as the front buckets were. They had a high backside, which isn't bad, but I didn't find much lateral support. Also, there's seatbelts for 3, but unless the one in the middle is small and doesn't complain on short distances, I wouldn't carry more than two back there. Another nifty feature; the back seats fold down in a 60/40 arrangement which is really nice for longer items. But since the pass through is not the full size of the seat, they're going to still have to be kind of small. 

 As you can really tell from the side profile, the trunk is not tremendously spacious, but it'll hold quite a bit. 

   
   Engine: This car had the 2.0L 132 horsepower (@ 5600rpm) I4 that also produces 129 lb-ft of torque (@ 4800rpm) and was paired with the 3 (?!) speed automatic. It moved the car decently, and will do 80+ on the highway, but that seems to take up most of it's energy. Passing power is hard to come by at that point, which makes me think that I'd be scared to try and take it all the way to 120mph. If you're looking for a car that merges on the highway with no problem and is a bit of a sleeper at stoplights, this is not the car. Like I said, it moves the car alright, and can and will merge, but it's a whiny, harsh sounding engine that lets you know, clearly, that it's not enjoying this (which is about 90% of the time). The Neon's whole purpose in life is to provide stylish, cheap transportation. Not to do so fast or quietly, but just to get there. 
  

  Ride: The ride was surprisingly good. It took up most of the imperfections of the road while maintaining contact with the driver and letting you feel what's going on, roadwise. It had confident handling, and felt secure on the road. The biggest downfall was the road noise that you could hear almost all the time. 
  
   
   Safety: My car had driver and passenger airbags and child safety locks. Also, it had the child safety locks, and if you consider it something to have, the back windows go down 3/4 of the way. I find this totally and completely annoying, but I suppose it's there for a reason.

 According to MSN's Auto feature the Neon 4-door scored a 3 out of 5 stars on driver frontal crash results, while the passenger front, oddly enough, got a 4 out of 5.

  
   Equipment: As I said before, this was a fairly well optioned out Neon, having the Espresso package with steering wheel mounted cruise control and power windows and locks. One thing weird I'll note about the power windows; they're power, alright, but only on the two front windows. Your friends in the back will have to crank them down themselves the 3/4 of the way down. According to the salesman, it's better that way so you don't have children back there fiddling with the power window switches, but then, isn't that why you have a 'lock' feature on them? The locks are power all the way around.


   Overall: This is a good starter car, or perhaps a second or third car. I found the quality to be pretty good, and the handling to be crisp and tight and relatively confidence-inspiring. The steering isn't heavy, and the brakes got the job done without alot of pedal travel. The nimbleness of the car is a feature I loved and, I felt, greatly added to the funness of the car to drive. The ability to just whip in and out of traffic or around parking lots is a good thing to have. Oh, if Expedition drivers only knew. 

 I've read other's reviews though and have seen quite a few who were less than happy with their purchase, so research thoroughly the car you're thinking of buying. I had no problems with mine the brief time I owned it and was satisfied with it while I did. But again, have it checked out to make sure you're not buying a car that's been abused.


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<