DOC>
<DOCID> 17921 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Toyota_Avalon </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_72682671748 </URL>
<TEXT>
            The previous-generation Toyota Avalon is essentially a Japanese Buick, a big, floaty car that offers space aplenty and not much else.

Toyota is rightly acknowledged to be the world's automotive quality leader, and has been for years, if not decades. To me, quality defines an automobile. Quality determines how well a vehicle will retain its value, how much you'll spend over your term of ownership on maintenance and repairs, how many headaches you'll encounter. 

It's for that reason that I've only rarely strayed beyond the Honda and Toyota plantation (in 1999 I made a disastrous and inexplicable decision to get a Saab 9-3, which is to Toyota as Aeroflot is to Delta Airlines or, for you baseball fans, what the Chicago Cubs are to the New York Yankees).

Surprisingly, this 1998 Toyota Avalon XL has proven to be very unreliable, as unreliable as...gulp...a Buick. The suspension clomps and shimmies over bumps and potholes. The transmission is a miserable, clonking thing that's way too slow to downshift, hobbled with an 80s-era "overdrive" button that should have been put to pasture decades ago. Sometimes the transmission doesn't feel like shifting at all, so it just hums along at 4000 RPM for 5 minutes or so and then drops into overdrive. Subtle taps on the throttle yield surprising results, usually a sort of unpleasant thumping sound the source of which is still a mystery to me.

The best part of this car is the motor, a strong if not overwhelming 200-hp 3.0-liter V6 that's eager to pass but less eager to start -- it often stalls after it's started, though this is almost certainly a fuel injection problem. Passing, even in a car as fat-arsed as this one, is a snap. Fuel economy, in the mid-to-high 20s, is also good.

The brakes are awful. The rotors are prone to warping and pedal feel is numb. Stopping distances are on the long side of average, meaning you're more like to be involved in accidents than drivers of better-braking cars.

The seats are flat and unsupportive and -- bonus -- they sort of shake around a little bit, as if they're not all the way screwed in (probably because they're not). The radio is suffers from being both average in sound quality and difficult to use, with little rows of little buttons that seem all-too-appropriate for the little sounds coming out of the little speakers. Interior material quality is about average -- below that of a Honda, but better than that found in most domestic fare.

I mentioned handling. It is, alas, very bad. The car leans hard in corners, the nose porposing up and down. Frost heaves bounce the car up and down and all around like a fat girl on a roller coaster.

It may not surprise you that I basically hate this car. The only thing to like about it is roominess, which is terrific. The trunk is huge, and the rear seats offer plenty of elbow and knee room.

But in most of those areas that, to me, define what a car should do, the 1998 Avalon fails. It brakes and handles poorly and does not stay screwed together well. This last part is a shock, and I understand that all Toyotas -- Avalons included -- are statistically less likely to fail than almost anything else out there.

But even if this Avalon were flawless, I still wouldn't recommend it. Yes, it's the biggest Japanese car you can buy for the money, and it does sport a nice motor. It just falls too short of the mark in too many areas. No more for me, thanks; I'm sticking with Hondas.
            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<