DOC>
<DOCID> 1861 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1992_Pontiac_Grand_Am </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_71372934788 </URL>
<TEXT>
            When my mother got her white 1992 Pontiac Grand Am, she was the original owner. She thought the car was very cute and quickly named it "Dorable." (My Dad used to have a 57 Chevy named Pierpont and my first car - a Ford Galaxy 500 was named Beetlebaum...but I digress.)

Mom doesn't do a lot of driving. When she and Dad go out, he drives. Mom teaches within a mile of home. The result is her car is a very low mileage car for its age. It has under 40,000 miles on it. She almost never takes the car on the highway. My mother drives only slightly more than the lady who only drove to church on Sundays that used car salesman talk about.

From the beginning, there was one big problem with the car. The design looks "swoopy" (mom's word) and it slopes down a lot in front. Swoopy may be aerodynamic but when you have a short driver (my mom is 5'1") it makes it hard to judge where the front of the car is. This is less problematic while driving than it is when parking. I'm a couple of inches taller than mother and have some problem with this. My sister who is the tallest of the three of us (5'7") doesn't find this a problem at all when she borrows the car. In other words, somewhere between me (5'4") and my sister (5'7"), the problem seems to be resolved.

Dorable has a the standard 120 hp engine that came on the Pontiac Grand Am. Considering that, however, it never felt like it had much oomph. I always thought it drove rather softly. As the years have gone by, it's gotten clunky sounding and has lost even more of the oomph that it did have to begin with. 

The standard equipment that came on the Grand Am included a 4 cylinder 2.3 litre engine, aluminum/alloy wheels, AM/FM Stereo, anti-lock brakes, fog lights, power brakes, power door locks, power steering, rally guages, tinted glass, velour/cloth seats. Mom can't drive a manual, so Dorable came came with automatic. The power everything is very nice, though invariably I don't get out of the car fast enough to escape before mom triggers the locks. Since we live in California, air conditioning is also a must. The air conditioning here is, in my opinion, anemic. By the time we get to where we're going, the car is usually cooled down nicely.

When driving the car, all the guages, buttons and switches are placed very comfortably. This car's interior design makes driving nearly intuitive. The steering wheel tips which makes getting in and out easier.

I do not like the bucket seats here. They do not fit me well and adjustments are limited to forward and backwards. The seatbelts have always been an issue. It is hard to secure them because of the angle at which they sit. This is less problematic for skinny friends, but for folks with big builds, this is a constant struggle.

Dorable is a two-door. Sitting in the front seat is quite comfy. However, when it requires far more twisting and turning than any other car I've ever been in to get in and out of the back seat. 

There is plenty of trunk space in the Pontiac for shopping. It is not as big as one might like when travelling, however. Sufficient if you're taking one big suitcase, it's a tight squeeze with more than one large bag. 

One of the problems with this car, and I hear that it was a problem with many Pontiacs from this era, is the paint. Last year the paint simply began to peel off in one big sheet. Because of the car's age, it was not covered under warranty.

One of the possibilities when I got back from overseas was that I would inherit Dorable and Mom would get a new car. We decided it was better for me to get the new car, however, because Mom likes Dorable and I don't. 

I would not recommend the 2-door 1992 Pontiac Grand Am. It is not comfortable. It has bad paint. It's hard to park if you're short. It doesn't have great trunk room. It's a sluggish ride. There's gotta be something better out there for your next car.

 
            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<