DOC>
<DOCID> 187 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Isuzu_Rodeo </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-1451-4047BEA-39A5AF02-prod2 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I live in the mountains on a twisty turny road that requires a higher than normal ground clearance to get over the bumps. I had a king cab pickup but the kids are getting older and a little squashed, so I knew I had to make a change. This was 2.5 years ago that I first wrote this review. I am updating it now based on several years and 62,000 miles with this vehicle.

I wasn't planning on buying new or buying an Isuzu Rodeo, what got me looking at them was the factory incentive of $2500 cash back and 0% financing for 48 months. I purchased this vehicle in August of 2000 when 0% financing was not the norm as it is now. I read all of the information I could get my hands on before going to the dealer and was pleasantly surprised by all of the positive things I read.

At the dealership I fell in love. Within 2 hours I was driving home in my new car. On the test drive it seemed to drive well with plenty of power, but the real test was the mountain I have to drive up to get to our house. My old truck has a v6 4 liter engine but doesn't have the 24 valves that the Rodeo does. This made a world of difference. For the first time I actually had to let off the gas going up the mountain. The power is certainly there!

The next test were the bumps. My truck is a truck and drives like one....just about shaking my teeth out coming up my road. The Rodeo had such a smooth ride I couldn't believe it! I don't do any serious off roading, but am on pretty rough Forest Service roads at least once a week that require 4 wheel drive. The Rodeo handles these fine and I love knowing there's protection underneath the vehicle in the way of skid plates. The shocks must not be super long lasting. At first the ride was very very smooth. Now it's getting a little bit rougher but certainly still acceptable.

Driving at night is a pleasure. The headlights even illuminate about 10 feet off the side of the road which makes me feel a lot safer. I would certainly get fog lights the next time around. The back seats and front seats are both very comfortable. I got the 6cd changer which is wonderful but the sound could be better. Because I prefer a manual, this is what I got and the shifting is effortless and smooth. Sadly, I got the nicest (LS) Rodeo that I could with a manual. The top of the line model comes standard with the Rodeo. However, most SUV's in this class don't even have manual transmission as an option. Pathfinder just deleted theirs and I do know BMW has one.

Gas mileage is rated at between 16 and 20 and after 2.5 hears and 60 some thousand miles I get 19-20. I work as a nurse in home health so I have probably 150 pounds of equipment in the back all of the time. The storage in this vehicle is wonderful. Only several negatives: the seatbelts have a tendency to "lock" if on bumpy, curvy roads and the fabric on the seats doesn't look like it could take a real good beating so I got some covers for them.  After about 50,000 miles my gas hand stopped working. It is covered under my extended warranty but I just don't feel like taking a whole day to get it fixed. I will before the warranty runs out though. It's just a little quality thing but a nuisance anyway. Check engine light comes on, stays on a while and then goes off. Have had that checked and all is fine on the vehicle. Just another little nuisance.

Compared to other SUV's with this engine size and room, the Rodeo is a good deal. It is one of the only ones built on a truck chassis (the old Isuzu pickup no longer made) so is more like a car than truck. As I said previously the quality is lacking on some things but all in all I have been very happy. I have had several years and many miles to find any problems and the only ones have been nuisance quality issues. I have never had any mechanical problems (knock on wood) and this vehicle has gotten me out of some sticky situations with the 4wd. 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<