DOC>
<DOCID> 19988 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1988_Dodge_Colt </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_12436934276 </URL>
<TEXT>
            The 1988 Plymouth Colt DL was imported by Plymouth from Mitsubishi. It is actually a Mitsubishi Mirage, and in 1988, it shared many of the same parts as the Huyndai Excel.

I bought this car from my girlfriend's friend for $600.00. It had 98,000 original miles and seemed to run good. I knew it had some minor problems which I was prepared to fix, but two days after I bought it, the rear main seal blew. The mechanic I ended up bringing it to was like most mechanics... an ignorant moron thief-slut. Of coarse he found as many things wrong with it as he could break, and he broke a bunch.

SO... WHY DID I BUY THIS CAR, YOU ASK?  

HERE ARE ITS BAD POINTS;  Let's see... it uses about 1 qt. of oil a week, but I have no idea where it's leaking/burning from as there is no smoke or driveway stains. At lower speeds, acceleration is poor. It's not very good on gas (25MPG Highway). Under the hood, it is hard to get to some of the normal maintenance parts, especially the oil filter. It has a 2 barrel carb and parts are not readily available for it. The automatic transmission shifts at incorrect shift points, which drives me friggen crazy. Something in the driver's side front brake rattles (who would design a brake system where that could ever happen???). The catalytic converter broke a week after I bought it, and I also had to spend $800. on the rear main seal, an oil pump, and a front axle. The handling charicteristics do not give the driver a feel for what's going on with the engine or road surface... it inspires no confidence in the driver what-so-ever. It's not good in the snow or rain, even with new General A4 tires. One headlight lost its shiney reflective material due to a water leak. There is no headlights ON beeper, so you can easily kill your battery if you forget to shut off your lights. The seats are not very comfortable for long trips. The exterior's  paint is just plain ugly. Both front door locks require you to hold the outer handle to lock them (dumb). Both rear doors almost fell off! The door's hinge bolts are held in with a nut which was barely factory welded on on the inside of the door. These nuts simply broke off, thus, allowing the doors to almost fall off. ( I wondered why the doors closed funny!). I fixed the hinges with some larger nuts and washers so the doors couldn't fall off. (sounds like a law suit there, huh?). When changing the station on the radio, my shirt sleeve has caught the odd-shaped shift lever a few times and accidently put the car in neutral while I was driving... YIKES!  The cones in the rear stock speakers deteriorated and blew apart at normal volumes. Parts for this car are not as easy to get as some other cars from the mid-80's.

HERE ARE SOME GOOD POINTS: The horn works good! The car is not worth ripping off, so I don't have to lock it ever. The brakes and hand brake work well. It has electronically adjustable dual rearview mirrors. It has a luggage rack. The intermittent wipers work well, (but like most, they don't give you the option of a 30 second delay for light misty conditions). It cruises well and is fairly tight at 70MPH. It has a rear window defroster that works okay but has no auto-shut off, so you must remember to shut it off.  It has a decent heater, but the fan must run all the time to warm your body consistantly. The 5 MPH bumpers actually work and show no damage when hit at its rated speed.  The spark plugs, distributor, and coil are right in front and can be easily worked on... and you will work on them!  The shift lever is in the center consul instead of the column... I like that. The dash, although square-ish like all 80's cars, is laid out fairly well. The gas gauge reads the amount of gas you actually have in the tank, as opposed to staying on full until you have 1/4 tank left, then dropping fast. The front seats recline and will accommodate leg room for taller people, and the head rests are height adjustable. For an 88, it has very little rust and is factory undercoated.

This car was only $600. If it was a Corolla, Sentra, Civic, it would have probably been $1500-1800. but parts would be more available. If you're a do-it-yourselfer, you know Mitsubishis, and you don't have much money, then this car might be right for you... (but I seriously doubt it!)

Hope this helps,
Dean F.

UPDATE on 9/27/01-  Well, believe it or not, several months after writing the epinion above, I still own this car. And guess what? With much prior turmoil, I spent another $300. rebuilding the cylinder head and installing a new catalytic converter. I did most of the work myself. Here's why I DIDN'T junk it; I now totally understand the ins & out of this car and sincerely believe it to be worthy of this fairly low-cost repair, especially with gas prices the way they are. It turns out that the oil consumption was due to a cracked valve stem seal and a warped and improperly seated jet valve seal. (luckily, it wasn't broken rings, scored cylinder walls, or a cracked head like all the mechanics said... Mechanics, UGH!). I believe these seals cracked because of a factory defect and ignorance on the part of the previous owner (or her mechanic) to identify the problem. The defect was that the secondary breather hose vent, which  goes from the valve cover to a nipple on the air filter housing, could not function because the nipple was NEVER drilled out at the factory. Oops! This secondary breather hose simply allows some of the low pressure crankcase vapors to re-enter the combustion chamber via the TOP of the carb along with the oxygen/gas mixture. This is unlike the PCV, which on this engine, sends pressurized crankcase vapor directly into the intake manifold at a higher volume.  Well, once the PCV clogs due to neglect, and the pressure cannot escape due to this clog and the undrilled nipple for the secondary vent, the crankcase pressure eventually builds up. This blows the rear main seal out. Now, as all the nice hot motor oil poured all over the tarmac, I think the donkey-chic that owned the car before me did not heed the multiple flashing warning lights and kept driving it, probably to get to her nail appointment. THIS IS WHAT CAUSED THE STEM AND JET SEALS TO BAKE, THEN CRACK AND WARP. This also allowed too much oil into the cylinders so it eventually destroyed the catalytic converter, too. 

Okay, I fixed the seals and the catalytic converter and the car runs great now and the engine is real quiet and smooth, and the automatic transmission shifts at better points. It's peppy and happy, and so am I. I drive it 70 mile a day and it has no problems doing this, even with 116,000 miles on the odometer.  

Now that everything is working correctly, I actually kinda sorta like this little underpowered car. It runs smooth and has some reasonable low-end torque if you honk on the throttle a bit. My gas milage has improved dramatically, too. I still don't recommend ever buying one, however.

Please feel free to email me with questions.
            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<