DOC>
<DOCID> 20735 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Chevrolet_Blazer </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_89758600836 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my 98 LS Blazer in 2001 with 50,000km. It is precision build with all body panels and door seams line up perfectly. The front seating is comfortable and the back seating is good for children or smaller adults. I find the handling and ride is good but on corners it has a bit much body roll. I also own a 99 sonoma 4x4 extended cab which has the same chasis's and suspension but a longer wheel base and it rides and handles better as well as body roll. But back to the blazer.
   I found my fuel mileage in the summer is 18 (miles per imperial gallon) in town and close to 22 on highway. 
Great Points of this type of Vehicle...
Awesome headlights
Engine warms up fast and heater warms fast.
Air condition excellent
Easy to read guage's and prove to be accurate
Easily accesible oil filter 
Radio/CD sound is great.

   I am a mechanic so please don't mind while I list every mechanical detail that goes wrong with this vehicle. The average person wouldn't notice some of these particular details I've found.
  The Belt Idler Tensioner, Pivot Point Bushings wear out, which cause's the Idler Pulley to start running on an angle, which leads to belt damage. Starts at 70,000km and had to replace at 105,000km.
  Engine oil cooler lines leak at crimped ends. Starts leaking from 0km. They leak worse when cold. The leak is minor. This is alway's a problem with this type of vehicle. Replace only if the leaking is severe. If you do replace the old ones, the new one's will leak eventually.
  Transmission cooler lines made of aluminum rub on frame close to radiator and will eventually have a leak unless repaired. I solved this problem by slightly bending them out of the way.
  The Steering Ilder Arm is poorly designed and was found loose at 50,000km. But, still within safety specifications. I shall be replacing this soon in my own vehicle, as it's beginning to wander a little. There are aftermarket part's that are better and can be problem solvers.
   The Pitman Arm ball stud is loose at 75,000km. This require's having to take the gear box off to replace. Its a pain to have to replace.
  Universal Joints were seized at 50,000km on this Blazer and the Sonoma. They are not greasable and it seems both these trucks have had the factory drive shaft assembled dry.
It's just my guess.
  The emergency brake is not good for gravel roads because the dust and dirt get's in the drum and wear the shoes and drum out. My e-brake constantly needs adjusting. 
  The windshield wipers quit on me once and wouldn't stop once but have never caused me and more problems.
  The power door locks are a little sticky in the winter.
  Be careful with the seat recliner lever or you can easily brake them off at the shaft.
  The lower outside window trim on the front door's pop up all the time and a little silicone on them cure's the problem. 
  The back hatch door lock fills with dust and doesn't work.
I see that the newer model's have eliminated the lock.
  The drivers side mirror rattles in the wind and can be corrected by wedging in some extra foam in the pivot point.
  My right rear speaker quit so I investigated and found the terminals right at the speaker were corroded.
  I had a creaking noise. When driving it sounded like it was coming from the left lower windshield area. Found it was the door pins. I corrected this by spending 12 bucks in new door pins and bushings.
  The front axle seal's tend to leak as well.
  The fog lights aren't mounted rigid enough and shake the light beam on the road. 
 Ok, I'm done for now. All these problem's can be found on many different vehicle's. So if someone asks, I love my blazer. I know this because of experience with other vehicles. 

-
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<