DOC>
<DOCID> 20730 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Chevrolet_Blazer </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-132A-AE8E071-3A3701E6-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I found my 1998, four-door, four-wheel-drive Blazer in November of 1998 following a month-long comparative shopping effort.  I compared the Blazer to the Ford Explorer, Jeep Grand Cherokee, Dodge Dakota, Toyota 4-Runner and Honda Passport, and found that no other SUV in its class offered more features for the price.  In most instances, the Blazer was thousands of dollars less than similarly equipped versions from its competition.  I had owned two Chevrolets in the past, A 1985 half-ton 4WD pickup and a 1994, V6 Camaro, and both were exceptional vehicles.  This favorable history with Chevrolet, combined with the exceptionally tasteful styling and perceived value of more features for fewer dollars helped weigh my decision. I bought that Blazer with great enthusiasm, and to this day, I love the way it is designed. 

 The exterior styling is smooth and easy on the eyes.  Mine is black on black, and when it is clean, that black paint combined with the chrome LS trim package really gleams in the sunlight. 

 I find the interior even more impressive.  Every control I would need to touch as the driver is within less than an arm's length, and very visible and easy to identify.  I am five feet, eleven inches tall, and the Blazer provides me with more than enough leg room.  I find that it also has ample amounts of shoulder room, and comfortably supportive seats that keep me cozy for as much as three hours in between stops on long road trips.  

The stereo with tape and CD players sounds great for a non-premium factory system, and visibility is good in all directions thanks to large amounts of glass around the passenger compartment and over-size mirrors on the doors.  I wouldn't recommend heading out on a long trip with more than two people in the back seat, but it will take a total of five people across town fairly comfortably.  There is also plenty of room in the cargo area to carry enough luggage for a four-person family on a vacation.  
     

My Blazer drives very well.  It has enough power to allow me to merge with interstate traffic without a worry, and the suspension is soft enough to smooth out the bumps, but firm enough to take any curve with a solid grip and very little lean or body roll.


There is a very prominent dark side to my Blazer however.  I have had more mechanical problems out of it in two years than all the other vehicles that myself and my family have owned in the last five years combined.

 It has had an oil leak, a transmission leak, a coolant leak and a power steering fluid leak.  It is on its third CD player.  (The first one conked out after three thousand miles.)  The paint peeled on the back right lower quarter panel and GM repainted it for me.  It is doing fine, but now the back LEFT quarter panel is peeling.  The back glass, or lift-glass, shifted out of place for no apparent reason and had to be replaced.  The original AC/Delco battery died around 18,000 miles for no apparent reason, and I had to replace it myself because it was the weekend and the local dealer was closed, and all that I got from the CHEV-USA hotline was an offer to have my Blazer towed to the dealer, which, as I said already, was closed for the weekend.  

The recline handle on the passenger side front seat pulled off in a passenger's hand.  (I have seen that problem in another Blazer that belongs to a friend.)  The lumbar support bladder in the driver's seat went bad and refused to inflate, necessitating replacement.  All of that and more occured within the first 35,000 miles of this Blazer's life, and was covered under warranty.  But now, at approximately 39,500 miles, I have a speaker that does not work, and the park brake indicator light stays lit while the park brake is not engaged.  These repairs will not be free.  
   

 There was a period when my Blazer spent more time in the shop than it did on the road, which made its exceptional ride and large list of features worthless, and left me bumming rides to work from my co-workers. But perhaps mine is a fluke, and is not representative of the rest of the Blazers roaming the roads.  I intend to give it one more year to see if it will straighten out, but I don't know if I will ever buy another Chevy.  This may have damaged my trust in the automaker beyond repair.  I can't enjoy a nicely designed car if it isn't built well enough to stay on the road.
<br><br>
            
<label> No
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<