DOC>
<DOCID> 21164 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Lexus_GS_Sedan </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-2B05-D845C47-3935CDA3-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I don't own this car, and usually I am dubious of reviews about cars by people who have never owned them. But my parents do own one, and I have spent some time behind the wheel in it.  I also extensively test drove this model before making my final choice of a used BMW 540i.  In fact, some of my criticisms of this fine car are why we chose the BMW over it.

The Lexus GS 300 is a fine sedan.  The quality build is evident in everything from panel gaps to the fine interior materials.  Everything is solid and has an &quot;expensive&quot; feel and look.   It is certainly a great car, but for the money (low-mid $40's new), I was expecting a little more in terms of driving fun.  My impressions follow:

Exterior:  I like the look of the car.  The aerodynamic shape is distinctive and will age well.   It also helps this car stay very quiet at speed.  I would like to see wider tires on this car, since the relatively skinny 215mm tires throw off the proportions on this wide, large car.  Big tires also look sportier, which, after all,  is what the GS is marketed as being. The paint quality is second-to-none.  (I see older Lexus vehicles on the road and they often look new)  The paint is deep and durable.  The lighter metallic colors are especially good at hiding the various scratches it will aquire over the years, but the Black is hard to beat for depth and the wow-factor after it's freshly washed.  

Interior:  The interior is striking, with it's light colored guages and smoothly integrated controls and radio/climate pod.  Leather is top quality, if a bit hard for my tastes.  The interior trim items(headliner, dash panels, buttons, etc) are the finest I've seen.  The console is useful.  The auto shifter is a bit odd, but works fine.  Legroom and hiproom are fine. Rear seat room is adequate, though not cavernous. I am 6'0, 210 lbs, and can ride comfortably in back.  This car has a touch of German sporting influence in the interior, unlike the LS 400 or ES 300.  It isn't as &quot;soft&quot; as the other models, which some older drivers may not like.  (my mom preferred her '94 Acura Legend's interior, even though it's obviously not Lexus quality)  

My favorite feature on this car is the memory seats and telescoping wheel. It moves out of your way when you remove your key, and it slides into place perfectly when you enter.  A great and fun feature.  The Stereo is good, though not great.  It is a notch above my '97 BMW 540i's unit, however.  The in-dash CD changer is great, and a big improvement on trunk-mounted units.  

Seats are comfortable and adjustable enough for me to get comfortable.  

Reliability/maintenance:  Simply the best.  These cars almost never break, and when they do, you are treated to great service at most Lexus dealers.  They go above and beyond to keep your business (you would too if you were making $6000 plus per unit sold)  They hold up well, cosmetically as well as mechanically.  These aren't do-it-yourself cars, but getting the service done professionally is a big part of retaining the great resale value, anyway.

Handling/ride/performance:  Though it has more horsepower than the BMW 528i which is seems to be targeted at, it actually posts slower 0-60 numbers due to it's higher weight, and perhaps the transmission design.  I've seen numbers of 8.0 seconds to 60, which is fine for daily use, but leaves you wanting a little more for &quot;fun&quot;.  Power comes on smooth and fairly quiet, though you do have to rev it a little more than you would with a bigger (and costlier) V-8.   Shifts are sure and smooth, like all Lexus.  Ride is smooth and quiet, but it's not a vault like the LS 400.  You do feel a little more of the road, but it's not harsh.  This is what a sports sedan is supposed to feel like, but many drivers may be expecting a cushier ride.  Handling is where the GS 300 falls off a bit, in my opinion. It is competent, but body roll is excessive for this type of car.  You feel a lot more &quot;out of control&quot; at high speeds and in tight turns than with my 540i.  Wider tires would also help with &quot;grip&quot; on the road.  It's no pig, but if you've driven a sports car (or any BMW) you will notice a difference.  Braking is fine, with no adverse characteristics.   This car would be a great trip car, and a decent canyon carver, but you'd find it wanting if you wanted to really push it on the turns.  There are some other much less expensive cars that outperform it (Nissan Maxima, Volkswagen Passat, Audi A4, among others) 

If you're buying this car for quality, comfort, image, and refinement rather than performance, you will be happier than if you're expecting a four door sports car.

Cost of ownership:  Resale value on this model is phenomenal.   Forget the price guides, these are impossible to find used at those prices. There are very few of them available, and sellers get top dollar.  The best deal I could find was $37,000 from a private seller for a used '99 with 17K miles that retails for $42,500.  And that one had a lot of dinks and 4 really torn up wheels/tires.  Not bad for a year and a half old luxury car. Maintenance isn't cheap, but it's acceptable for a luxury car, and you will have relatively little out-of-pocket repair costs after the 50k/70k warranty is up.  Fuel, insurance, and taxes are about average for this class.  If you buy a GS 300 at a good price and hold on to it for many years, you might be surprised how relatively affordable it is.  sure, a Lincoln LS will outperform it, but how much will THAT car be worth when it's 7 years old?   
 


If refinement, quality, image and prestige are what you buy a car for, you won't be lacking with the GS 300.  This car turns heads and gets respect, if only from those who realize you are smart enough to buy quality.  In a couple of years, this will be a really good choice in a used vehicle.  I'd recommend it as an alternative to a new loaded Camry or Accord.  I'd suggest a used BMW 540i or perhaps a Lincoln LS if you're looking for more sporting fun.  If you lean more towards comfort and luxury and can use some serious power to boot, try finding a used ('98) LS 400 for about the same price, or less, than a new GS 300.  





<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<