DOC>
<DOCID> 21643 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Acura_CL </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-7D73-7DFEDAB-386A86DB-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I love my '99 Acura CL 3.0.  

I am a 25 year old professional student, and I was looking for a sporty car that was functional and classy looking.  Having previously owned a Mitsubishi Eclipse, I wanted something that could comfortably hold 4 non-midget adults and that had a more grown-up look to it.  I also wanted a bigger 6-cylinder engine and wanted the price to be around or below $25,000.  Most importantly, my car HAD to have cup holders!  After switching from a car that had cup holders to a car that lacks them, I became very frustrated and I realized what a difference such a seemingly small feature can make.

THE COMPETITION
First of all, I was shocked that there aren't too many cars that fit in the class I described above.  Not very many cars caught my eye, and of the ones that did catch my eye, they usually turned out to be way too expensive like the $120,000 BMW Z8 or the $60,000 Porsche Boxster.  Oh well, maybe someday!  

After getting back down to earth, I decided that the Acura CL and the VW Jetta seemed like nice cars.  Both looked very sharp and had a reputation for quality.  I test drove both vehicles, and as you can probably figure out, I decided on the Acura CL.  The Jetta was very nice, and drove well, but the Acura had a bit more power, and in my mind, Acura is simply a better brand than Volkswagen.

Acura has a great reputation for quality.  My mother drove an '86 Acura Legend, and even today, that car has still never had a problem.  

What first drew me to the Acura CL was its looks.  The best view of the car is from behind.  The rear end has a unique design -- it comes to a point instead of being flattened off -- and in my opinion, this is the most beautiful feature of the car.  Also striking are the tail lights, which have a unique asymmetric shape and blend smoothly into the corners of the trunk area.

APPEARANCE
While the exterior of the CL is sporty, the inside is all about class.  The CL comes standard with leather seats.  My black CL comes with a smoky gray interior color scheme.  Also adding the the elegance of the car is the faux-wood paneling on the dashboard.  

Like previous Acura models, the steering wheel has duplicate audio controls that allow you to adjust the volume or adjust the radio station or change the CD track without having to look away from the road.  This is one of the smartest designs I've seen, and I'm very surprised that other auto manufacturers haven't picked up on the idea.  The steering wheel also houses the cruise control buttons so you can accelerate or decelerate with just the flick of your thumb.

AUDIO
The stereo system is impressive for a factory installed model.  The 3.0 CL comes with a six-speaker 100 watt Bose system that has rich sound reproduction and excellent bass.  For convenience, the center console has slots to hold about 10 CDs, and you can store other CDs in the door compartments.  

ENGINE 
Okay, now for performance.  This is what sold me.  This car can really fly!  The 3.0 is a 200 hp engine with VTEC technology.  The maximum torque is 195 ft-lbs, and the torque is felt in the low RPM ranges.  However, the car really likes high RPMs (as with all VTEC engines), for that's where it gets its maximum power output.  From a stop, the CL can really take off and have you to cruising speed in a jiffy.  The automatic transmission (the only option on the 3.0 CL) shifts smartly and smoothly so you can move rapidly through the gears without feeling even the slightest jolt or change in power.  At highway speeds, the CL has plenty of power reserve so passing is easy.  The ride is really smooth.  It doesn't grip the road like a true sportscar, since it doesn't pretend to be a sports car.  Rather, it's a near luxury sports coupe, so it emphasizes comfort and insulates you from the imperfections in the road.

AMENITIES
Heated seats!  I live in Houston, TX, where for 11 months out of the year I get to wear shorts.  When the salesman pointed out the heated seats feature to me, I laughed at him, thinking when am I ever going to use heated seats in Texas?  But it does get chilly here every once in a while, and it so happened that we had a cold front the week I bought this car.  Boy, those heated seats feel nice!  

Climate Control.  I *love* having a climate control system where I can just set the temperature I'd like and leave everything else alone.  In Texas, you HAVE to keep the A/C on all the time or you'll suffocate from the heat and humidity.  But on my old car, which didn't have a climate control system, it would get too cold after the A/C had been running for a while, so I'd have to turn it off, and then it would get too stuffy in the car.  I was faced with one of two extremes, with no in-between.  Not so with my Acura CL.  It's always comfortable, keeping it at exactly 72 degrees or whatever I choose.

Cupholder.  You're probably wondering why I didn't mention this sooner.  Yes, the Acura CL has dual cupholders that are big enough to accommodate large cups.  There's even a little plastic insert that you can use to make  a smaller cup fit better, but I never use that.  You can even hide away the cup holder if you think it's unattractive, but why would I ever do that?  I want everyone to know that this Acura does not come without the ability to hold my BEvERage!

ACCESSORIES
The Acura CL comes loaded: power windows, power sunroof, CD player, leather seats, cruise control, you name it.  The only options worth considering are the 6-CD changer, the spoiler, and the gold package.  You can also upgrade the wheels, but I think the standard wheels look great(see footnote*).
 
I decided to get the spoiler on mine, just because it gives it a younger, sportier look.

CONSIDERATIONS
The Acura CL comes in two engine sizes: the 2.3L and the 3.0L, both of which are V6 VTECs.  I never drove the 2.3, so I can't comment on its performance.  It seems to be more popular than the 3.0, though.  

One thing I don't like is that Acura doesn't offer manual transmission in the 3.0, just the 2.3.  I wanted to get a manual, just because I've never owned one before, but since I wanted the 3.0 I had to settle with the automatic.  The CL isn't really a sports car, so settling for the automatic wasn't such a big loss.  

OVERALL
The Acura CL is a beautiful car with a luxurious feel.  The engine is fast and smooth.  Since it is an Acura, I can expect it to last for many many years.  It is actually a great value at $23,100 since it comes loaded.
 
I have owned this car for less than a month, so I can't comment on maintenance and reliability, etc.  


* UPDATE *
Damnit! 
In my epinion, I said that the wheels on this car look pretty cool.  Well, I guess someone shares my epinion.  After having this car for less than two months, I had all four wheels stolen!  

Oh well... now I can go write an epinion on State Farm.
<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<