DOC>
<DOCID> 21940 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1990_Acura_Integra_Hatchback </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_95704485508 </URL>
<TEXT>
            <b>Introduction</b>
The Acura Integra hatchback I owned was a black LS model with the optional spoiler.  I no longer own the car but I thought I'd add a review since I owned it for over 8 years.

Back in 1990, when I first bought this car, I loved almost everything about it. The previous car I owned before this was a 84 VW Rabbit GTI (manufactured in the U.S) and after the numerous problems I had with it, I was looking forward to some Honda reliability.
There weren't many Japanese cars at that time in this price range that had the "sporty" image combined with everyday practicality.  The only other car that I would have considered at the time was the Nissan 240sx.

<b>Driving experience</b>
My car was a 5-speed and I really could not imagine driving this thing with an automatic.  After owning a VW for 6 years, this stick-shift was a godsend.  It was so smooth in comparison, that I thought I was in heaven.  In the 8 years and 160,000 miles that I owned this thing, I never had a problem with the clutch, or the stick.  I sold my Integra only to get a larger vehicle.

Steering feel is excellent.  Great road feel, not too mushy but the car did have a hint of understeer when driven hard around corners or in wet or snowy weather.  Very flat cornering and very good straight on-center feel.  I could drive for pretty good distances on straight highways without adjusting the steering.  I found the car to ride even better at higher speeds (above 75mph) where aerodynamic down-force was more at play.  Both front seats offer good lateral support and are comfortable for long distances.

The engine was very smooth for a 1.8L 4 cylinder for it's time.  There's not much torque (121) or horsepower (130) to compete with today's 4-cylinder engines.  This is a light car and power is still adequate but this car was built to extract that power at fairly high rpms.  At the time I bought it, I thought it was a high-revving engine until the GSR came out.  It can be fun driving this way but occasionally it can get tiresome
Ride is good for a car of this weight class.  Neither too stiff, or too soft.  As is common with some front-wheel drive cars due to the weight distribution, the constant abusive driving I put it through and the harsh winters, I had to get the front springs replaced at 150,000 miles.
One complaint - drive slowly when entering steep driveways.  The low front-end received plenty of scrapes in its day.

Sound levels are acceptable but wind intrusion through the passenger side window was definitely noticeable at speeds above 60mph.  The wonders of frameless window design.  No wonder they changed it for the next generation Integra model.  One advantage of this design though was the excellent visibility in all directions owing in part to the small a and b pillars.  Nothing to complain about compared to my boxy VW which experienced far more wind noise even WITH framed windows!
Low cowl also contributes to the great outward visibility.  Plenty of glass here.

The original muffler twin-exhaust tips corroded and loosened after 5 years and started to clang against each other when the car was idling.  Pretty annoying until I got the muffler replaced and I have yet to see this model Integra over 5 years old with the original exhaust tips. 

<b>Aesthetics</b>
I loved the Integra's interior right up until the day I parted with it.   This is a very driver oriented, one piece dashboard complete with clean, practical, well-lighted, analog gauges.  Cruise control buttons were integrated seamlessly into the steering wheel (quite a novelty in 1990).  The control stalks (signals and wiper controls) on the tilt-steering column are soft to the touch and intuitive.  Stereo, and HVAC push-button controls are all angled towards the driver.  The RS model has slider HVAC controls instead of push button which I found to have a cheaper and less accurate feel and one of the reasons I decided to go up to the LS trim.

My only complaint was the lack of a center armrest which I purchased from Acura, and installed myself.  And the great thing about the armrest was the inclusion of two cup-holders which was sorely missing.

The cloth upholstery (shades of bluish-grey with my black exterior) is conservative but tasteful.  The 60/40 split folding rear seats allow you to carry large objects like single bed mattress from my final University days (I can't believe I squeezed that in there!)   Rear seating is not great but anyone under 5 foot 9 should still be comfortable here unless the driver or front passenger reclines their seat or slides it back.  There's a lever on the front passenger seat to flip it forward for the rear passengers to get out but it would be nice if the front passenger seat slid forward as well to make ingress/egress easier.

The exterior is a little on the conservative side but nothing about it irritates, and the matching 5-spoke alloy rims looked very good for its time.   I never liked the appearance of the sedans but I always found the hatchbacks very appealing, especially with the spoiler.
The rear window washer-fluid spray is useless.  It just drips down the window.  There's definitely not enough air pressure here.  I wonder if it was something wrong with my car or common to all Integra hatchbacks?

The black coloured car that I had looked great and it was easy to touch-up paint stone chips but hot summers and a dark interior really got that air conditioner working overtime.  Mine never broke down probably because I used the sunroof quite often.

<b>Final Thoughts</b>
As far as Integra models are concerned, I would have gone with the GS instead of the LS except for two things - I didn't have enough money at the time, and I didn't feel power windows were very necessary when there are only two windows you can open anyways.  That said, looking back the ABS brakes on the GS model (especially in my snow heavy region) would have justified spending the extra money if I had it.
You're not going to win any races in this car but if you want a daily commuter that's fun to drive at a very reasonable price in the pre-owned car market, this could be the car for you.
NOTE: If you like the styling of this Integra Model but want more power, go with a 1992 model when Honda added 10 extra horsepower by modifying manifold and exhaust or go with the 160hp GSR.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<