DOC>
<DOCID> 23137 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1996_GMC_Sierra_K2500 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-1FB5-20F3EF40-39ED15B6-prod4 </URL>
<TEXT>
            We bought the truck to pull a horse trailer with three horses and sometimes a 24' boat.  The truck was originally purchased for my husband whose old JIMMY died. I'm driving a 94' GMC Sonoma which I love by the way (see other review) Now that we have a baby and need to put a car seat in the back seat I have to drive the Sierra.  

First let me say the truck runs like a dream, has power to spare and really looks hot.  The design is far better than either, the ugly Fords that came out at the same time, and the Dodge ---(don't even get me started on Dodge's feeble attempt to bring back the look of the Studebaker pickup)

Anyway, my husband had to have all the extras. Now the car companies are packaging options. You can't just buy options individually anymore, you have to order them in more expensive packages even if you don't want all the options in the package.  For instance, I have not leapt into the auto CD player age.  I still have tapes. (yes, they're at least cassettes, very funny...)  Anyway, in order to get me a cassette deck we had to get leather seats and seat heaters.  Hello! can you say frou frou truck!?! It's so embarrassing here in the country to have a farmer jump up into your new truck and get his butt roasted when he thinks he's locking the door but instead he's setting the seat heater to high! 

Anyway, the seats are beautiful, comfortable and the heaters are a necessity in the winter when it gets mighty cold here near Buffalo so that isn't so much a problem as it is an observation.

There are five real pet pieves I have about the design of the truck.  They are minor to some people, but what you pay for the truck, there shouldn't be any in my book.  My husband and dad both worked for GM so I have that &quot;great GM feeling&quot; to contend with.  

The first is the lousy design of the sun visors.  They suck.  They are not extendable when moved to the side windows and the way they click into the holders in the ceiling is ass-backwards.  It's very annoying.

Second is that the electric seat adjustments can not be over ridden and they are extremely slow.  Deal with that some day when you're trying to get your infant son into a car seat in the back when it's raining out.  One or both of you is going to get mighty wet waiting for the seat to move forward enough to get the car seat in. This one really ticks me off.

Third the design of the extra door needs work.  Go grocery shopping, park next to another vehicle.  When you come out with your cart and try to pull it next to the door to unload your groceries into the truck you can't.  The rear door opens to the back and you can't get around it to get the groceries unless there is no car parked next to you.  Dumb.  Maybe GM figured people would not ever need to bring groceries home in this vehicle, but reality check time guys...

Fourth, when you want to put something in the back seat from the driver's side, you need to have two hands free to move the seat-back forward.  You have to pull a lever forward and move the seat at the same time.  So don't ever approach the truck with something in your hands unless you can set it down first. (or act like a cowboy and throw it over the back of the seat into the backseat)  Git a long little dooggie.  Not in the real world guys.

Fifth is the rear window seals.  The truck is so airtight that the first week we blew out one of the rear window seals just by slamming the front door shut too hard.  Took it back to the dealer and he said it was a problem in this vehicle.  Then he tried to say he couldn't fix it permanently so we'd just have to live with it.  Come again?  I don't think so Mack!  I'm still fighting with them about it.  They'll fix it until they get it right or they'll want to get rid of me so bad that they'll replace the truck.

Those are my only complaints about the truck.  I actually love to drive it, but I don't let on to my husband.  He still thinks I'm pining for my little Sonoma. yeah right!

I highly recommend this truck.  One other note it comes in so many awesome colors that it's easy to match it to a new horse trailer for a great looking combo.  When the boat doesn't match though, you just have to get some new gel coat for the boat.  Oh well.
 <br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<