DOC>
<DOCID> 23398 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_GMC_Sierra_Denali </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_59502005892 </URL>
<TEXT>
            When comparing luxury pickups, you'll find the Sierra Denali will immediately catch your attention.  I was looking for something comfortable, different, powerful, and that stood out from the normal truck crowd.  This truck has more than met my expectations.

The All-wheel drive QuadraSteer function is absolutely amazing.  From the first moment you can tell a major difference in the way this truck handles from all the rest.  GM was right in applying this technology to a larger vehicle, instead of small sporty cars, like others have done in the past.  I can park this pickup in places I would never attempt with another vehicle this size.  Taking corners is a beautiful maneuver also.  Below 40 miles per hour, the back end swings out gently while the front tracks perfectly.  The feeling is amazing, and only took a few minutes to get used to.  It's like your pivoting on the center of the pickup.  Above 40 mph, the rear wheels turn the same distance as the front, making lane changes at speed something you look forward to!  Most of the body roll is eliminated by the QuadraSteer.  I cannot recommend this function highly enough.

And, yes...the QuadraSteer can be turned off by the driver.  You actually have three different drivetrain modes, with two different ride settings.  I'll let the dealer explain the functions to you, or I'll go on forever!

Power is great with the 6 liter V-8...325 hp and 370 foot pounds of torque at 4000 rpm.  Very nice.  Aluminum heads keep the engine cooler, and I've had the truck in both city driving (Denver, CO) and at 10,000 feet with no problem with overheating.  As for mileage, I think I can squeeze 17 mpg out of this thing eventually.  Looks like I'm getting 12 in town and about 15 on the highway.  Definitely room for improvement here GM.  I'm planning on a low restriction air filter, Mobil 1 after the break-in period, and possibly upgrading the exhaust system.  But I'm in no hurry.  The truck is fine the way it is, and you just need to plan on budgeting for the gas you'll need.

Being a Denali, the truck is loaded with every conceivable option.  There is absolutely nothing I have to buy to add to this truck.  Great stereo, tonneau cover, excellent Michelin rubber, stylish wheels, running lights, nice leather, OnStar, integrated phone system, highly adjustable heated seats with 2 memory settings on the drivers side, 6 disc CD player and cassette, lots of electrical outlets, convenient cup holders, etc, etc.

The trucks aren't cheap.  Unless you find a month when the sales have slowed a little, you won't get any special deals or discounts on this baby.  Mine is Pewter, with two-tone leather interior.  I wanted black, but they were tough to find.  And after seeing the beautiful Pewter and driving one of these, I didn't want to take the chance of not even being able to find one.  My dealership only had 3, and there were others looking the same time as me.  Bought mine the same day and drove it home that night with only 4 miles on it.  Ya gotta love that!

This is the first truck on the market with this type of suspension, and GM plans on adding it to their other large vehicles.  Yes...I got an extended warranty to cover the entire period of my lease.  I didn't want to take the chance of this "new" technology breaking down and costing mucho buckaroni's.  But as of right now, one week into owning this vehicle, I can honestly say I love it more every day.  I find excuses to go places, and I don't mind traffic delays anymore.

If you want a truck that is extremely comfortable, well made, handles like a dream, turns heads, and MAKES you want to drive...then look seriously at the Sierra Denali.  Thanks GM...keep up the good work!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<