DOC>
<DOCID> 24121 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1994_Mitsubishi_3000GT </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_120552132228 </URL>
<TEXT>
                 The 1994 Mitsubishi 3000GT (VR-4) is one of the best Japanese sports cars to come out of the 90's.  The 3000GT combines aggressive performance with plenty of creature comforts.  The car is also extremely forgiving for a 320 HP monster, not to mention being a relative bargain (purchase price-wise).

     The VR-4s are loaded with features.  They have electronically adjustable suspension, "active aero", "active exhaust", full climate control, removable sunroof (electric on later models), 6-Disc CD Changer, and power drivers seat.  The '91 through '96 VR-4s have an "active aero" system that alters the angle of the rear spoiler and deploys a front air dam at prescribed speeds.  The spoiler can also be controlled manually if you're trying to get the attention of onlookers.  The VR-4s "active exhaust" system is a neat idea, but I never really determined if it really had any noticeable effect or not.  The system is supposed to change how the exhaust is routed or baffled.  Below 3000 RPM the system is set so that noise is minimized.  Above 3000 RPM the system changes to maximize performance.  Like the "active aero" system it can be manually controlled.  The removable sunroof is easy to use and can be removed and stowed in the hatch area of the car.  I didn't experience any rain/water leaks with the sunroof.

     The electronically adjustable suspension is another nice touch (that I miss a great deal).  It has two settings, "Sport" and "Tour".  In the "Tour" mode the car literally rides like a Cadillac.  Gone is the lumber truck-like ride of most high performance sports cars.  When you're ready to cut up the twisties the push of a button changes the system over to "Sport" which noticeably stiffens up the suspension.  It should also be mentioned that the vehicles computer will also change the suspension setting to "Sport" during radical maneuvering, hard braking, or above certain set speeds (100 MPH I think).  The VR-4s also come with an Infinity sound system which sounds great (even though it lacks a subwoofer).  The stock infinity head unit also has an auxilary input jack (great for MP3 players).  The stereo also features steeringwheel mounted radio controls.  These controls allow for some control over the radio/CD player without taking your hands from the wheel.  While you can't "tune" the radio with these controls, you can cycle through your preset stations.

     The AWD system is simply fantastic.  A couple of years ago I made a 1000-mile trip from southern Wisconsin to central Ohio for a friend's wedding.  On the way back I was caught in a lake-effect snow storm.  Just to see how the AWD system handled the slippery road conditions I punched it coming out of an Indiana toll booth with a good amount of snow and slush underneath.  The VR-4 maintained adequate forward progress and practically corrected itself with only very minor input from me.  Attempting the same maneuver in a rear wheel drive car usually ends you up facing the wrong direction or worse.  The AWD system can also make for some nice neck-snapping launches.  However, be forewarned that consistent abuse of the AWD will lead to failure of the transmission.  The VR-4 has gotten a lot of bad press because of transmission failures.  However, it has been my experience that abuse has led to the majority of these.  If you're into aftermarket tuning, the VR-4 has a sizeable aftermarket following but bear in mind that the AWD system cannot handle enormous amounts of horsepower (which is why there aren't any 900 hp VR-4s running around).

     The 3000GT has a few other minor weaknesses.  For one, it can be very expensive to repair and maintain.
I purchased my VR-4 with just over 70,000 miles on it.  The car was flawless both in appearance and mechanically (even though the 60,000 mile service had not been performed).  Like most other Japanese cars, the VR-4 uses a timing belt which is given a service life of 60,000 miles.  They usually last longer, but it isn't wise to push the belt's limits since a failed belt can mean serious engine damage.  One of the biggest drawbacks of this car was the service costs.  The full 60,000 mile service can run upwards of $1,200 (as of this writing) and is highly reccomended.  However, if you're mechanically savvy, the process to change the timing belt, tensioner, and water pump isn't an impossible task.

     Another drawback of the 3000GT is that it's engine compartment is so cramped that even a seemingly simple task (like changing the spark plugs) can become an involved project.  FYI:  The back three plugs require removing the intake manifold.  Reccomended services aside, my VR-4 was probably the most reliable car I have ever owned.  During the time I had it, the only non-service-interval related part I had to replace was the thermostat.

     Finally, the VR-4 is probably one of the most beginner friendly sports cars around.  The combination of it's AWD and suspension system make the car very predictable at the edge of it's performance envelope.  The car is also very forgiving of many beginner mistakes (like taking corners too fast).  I had gotten myself into more than one bad situation by making a "beginner mistake" and the car simply shrugged it off and was an ease to get back under control.

     All in all the 3000GT VR-4 is a great buy.  It's reliable, fast, and sharp looking.  If you're a beginner looking for a sports car you might want to take a look at a VR-4 before you immediately go for that Supra, Vette, or Cobra.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<