DOC>
<DOCID> 24653 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Saturn_ION </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_81317760644 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I'm not one to go around and test-drive dozens of cars, but I did so over the last few months because I was finally in the market. 

I'm young, male, and recently done with college. I'm driving a car nearly as old as I am. Time for a change&#151 on a budget. 

I'm limited to cars with a financed cost of less than 20K, so I start off in the small car segment and stay there. Civics, Corollas, Cavaliers, etc. Pretty boring stuff. But there's some fun to be had in the mix, right? The Civic Si gets good reviews as a sporty little car. Well, I drove it. Not very impressed for the 19 grand the dealer was going to give it up for. It's powerful but loud. Whenever VTEC kicked in it was like a jet plane was taking off infront of me. Is that really necessary? For as many times as i've seen The Fast and the Furious, I wasn't impressed with the handling, either. OK, but not great. And the back is for kids and pets only... 

Corolla: Nicer interior, and it was much quieter and softer on the road, but it didn't handle quite as well as the Civic, not to mention it was way underpowered. 

Jetta: Another nice interior, but that's one expensive 110 horsepower car to have so little leg room. Lots of engine problems, i hear, too. Loyal fans overlook things falling off and give them 5 stars...

Focus: 11 recalls so far. Two in the last month for potential engine fire/explosion problems! No thanks. Whatever it costs, I want to be able to drive it without wondering if it's going to stall without warning on the interstate.

Out of the blue, I stopped by the Saturn site and saw something called the ION. hmn. I like the exterior style, although it's a little risky. But I like it at least. Probably not for everyone. Base model comes with 140hp 145lb torque? Electronic variable steering? hmn. for 12K? Hey, i'll go right up to the top-level at 15K, comes with fog lights, cd/cassette, special fabric, power everything, keyless entry, automatic headlights, fold-down rear seats and those dent-proof panels. Features beat every competitor for the price. I don't want to hear about "rebates" or anything like that, because as a 22 year old first time car buyer, i'm getting nothing from the Honda guy except 18% financing. GM has a college grad program that gives people with no BAD credit prime lender status, and a 750 dollar "down payment" that's added in to the mix. Might as well get leather for 700 bucks. A big difference. 6 speaker sound with an external amp for a couple hundred more. ABS and traction control for 400 is a steal. 

sign me up at just under 17000. then take off the 750 and finance it at 3.9% (I have no credit cards or previous credit and I'm getting 3.9 from GMAC!) and my payments are under 325 a month.

So financially it's a great car.

In practice, comparably equipped Hondas and Toyotas cost the same or more. But what about the car itself?

I drove a 5speed manual and a 5 speed automatic (yes, the only 5 speed auto in the non-lux small car market). I'm a stick fan, but the auto impressed me with its ability to know which gear I wanted almost intuitively. The salesman informed me that it uses grade-logic hardware to determine that i'm going up a hill and adjusts accordingly. cruising speed in a civic with auto is extremely loud, both from wind and from engine noise. The extra gear in the saturn brings down the engine noise level, while the solid frame and apparently superior sound-dampening materials take care of almost all the wind. The engine itself is easily more powerful than any of the competition's base or mid-level engine options. It's standard on all three trims of the ION. performance is only matched by the sport-tuned versions of the Civic and Focus, which cost more and don't have comparable gas mileage. Saturn is releasing a 200  hp version next year to take care of that problem. 
The other review complains about the clickyness of the gearbox. I disagree. It had a slight click, but it didn't interfere with shifting at all. I was able to shift more smoothly than my old car could handle, and the clutch in that poor thing is so worn that there hasn't been a click for the last 5 years. I just flop it into something close to gear and it grabs it and brings it in on a line. The ION was free, but precise. It felt good and sporty. Like a better version of the Eclipse stick.

Comfort: the front seat is great. I'm 6'2'', so i usually need all the room a small car can give to be comfortable driving. I actually could barely reach the pedals when i put the seat back all the way. The rear seats are as small in the ion as they are in every competitor's small car. Felt cramped for me, but just about the same as the civic. maybe a little smaller than the corolla, although the front is roomier (which is all i care about. nobody else will be driving my car, right?). The Focus' rear seat felt the smallest. I've not been in the hatchback focus, but the 2 and 4 door versions are barely big enough for middle-schoolers in the rear. much less adults.

The steering wheel is smaller than normal, which I like. it feels like I have to do less work to get the car moving. That's probably also got something to do with the electronic steering, which feels better here than it does on the VUE, where it debuted for saturn. My old car had no power steering, so I appreciate feeling attached to the road, and traditional power steering seems to but up a barrier between you and the road, like you're floating. No such feeling with the ION. 

The center-mounted instrument panel threw me off a bit. I didn't like it for the first ten minutes, but then suddenly it just felt right. I could see everything around me much better because there was no big panel of dials and lights in the way. Night driving showed another advantage:less glare from the lights, resulting in a clearer, higher-contrast view of the road. Very nice for people like me who have slight night-blindness problems. Eye strain disappeared when the instruments moved out of the way. I liked the dash material. strange, futuristic bumpy stuff that felt overall pretty solid. The interior as a whole was fairly sparce but functional. All the buttons and things were in the intuitive places. I think the radio may be a little too far away for some drivers, but I have long arms, and it felt just right. 

 With leather interior, this car is beautiful on the inside. Some may not like the cloth options that are available, as they are a little risque and unique. But they seem like quality improvements over the last saturn. 

In fact, everything about this car feels better than in the car it's replacing. More power, more refinement, more comfort, more style, more options, and approximately 500 dollars more price. It's worth the difference. 

The saturn dealer offered me 0% financing on a 2002 SC2 with everything, which came out to roughly the same price as the ION I was looking at, also with everything. Unfortunately the ION isn't shipping with sunroofs just yet, but they should be by the end of the month. I drove both cars and decided that only an idiot would trade 3.9% financing for 0% financing on equally-priced cars of totally different values. The ION is so far superior to the car it replaces that Saturn is going to have a hard time selling their 2002 stock of S series cars, even if they DO decide to give rebates. 

One other comment. The first review thoughout mentions the MSRP of a car and then the "actual" cost of the car. That's after talking the dealer down from some over-inflated cost in the first place. Nothing in america can be bargained on except cars and things that are being resold used. Why play their games? I went into saturn, and for the first time in 3 months, felt no pressure to buy a car. They were just like "here's our new baby! we like it. wanna try it out?" and I did. and again. and then I asked how much it was. and it never changed. I kept waiting for the catch. they'll get me in financing, i told myself. 3.9% they'll get me with taxes or some other kind of requirements. No tricks. They'll get me with early-payoff penalties. none. Just a straightforward buying process. Like buying a toaster at Walmart. Only on a 60 month payment plan. I left saturn feeling good about my purchase. My salesman had none of that usual salesman slime. I was so tired of crappy salesman stuff. That was worth whatever cost I didn't get to bargain down on the vehicle. I was in the saturn dealership getting approved for my loan (took 10 minutes) and watching the mazda dealership across the street, where they were having a "All cars 5 dollars!" sale, and dozens of people were walking around and looking at the 5 dollar cars. Right. Why would I want to be involved in that? shouldn't they have a little more pride in their product? 

I was invited by saturn to go around and test drive all the competition before I made my decision. They know they have a better car. after taking their advice, now I do too.

Online car reviews are a questionable source to base a huge financial decision on.  
Here's my final recommendation: don't trust me, or anyone else on the internet, to testdrive your car for you. Clearly, different people have different expectations and different biases. I found the ION to meet or beat the competition in every category. You may not agree. But go for a test drive first. Drive a Corolla. Then drive a Civic. You'll want the Corolla, I'm pretty sure. Unless you like more muscle, then a high-end Civic will appeal more than any Corolla. Then go by Mazda and Chevy and Dodge and Ford. If you forget how one felt, go back and try it again. Push them. Get on the interstate. Get on a curvy road. Drive them at night (any dealer who won't let you test drive at night or in the rain isn't worth dealing with). Then go to Saturn and try on the ION. That's what I did, and I feel like I saved the best for last. Maybe you'll agree.

UPDATE:
I now have 10,000 miles on my car. So far I've been extremely pleased with it in almost all aspects. Two issues have come up in that time, and both have been resolved to my satisfaction. First, my clutch pedal started squeaking, and they fixed that. Then the HVAC control chip stopped working properly, and my A/C was screwy. Saturn replaced the module, and everything is running fine.

Mileage has been consistently 30-32 mpg from day one, and I tend to drive a bit on the aggressive side (ok, ok, quite a bit).

Dealership experience has, as expected, been great, and my only gripe currently is that Saturn Corp. has been painfully slow in bringing the promised custom accessories to market.

If you're in the market for a small car, I still say the ION is the way to go. But you might want to wait until the beginning of 2004, when the Redline QuadCoupe hits the streets. If you're unfamiliar with this version of the ION, do a quick search on Google for it. The phrase SRT-4 Killer comes to mind.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<