DOC>
<DOCID> 25134 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/614803_Canon_Power_S110_Digital_Camera </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_47179599492 </URL>
<TEXT>
            After much research on the topic I have entered the Digital Camera arena with a winner of a model.  During the course of my research I was focusing on several key factors. 1) The camera had to be from a reputable manufacturer.  2) The camera had to be durable and small.  3) The camera had to work easily with Macs and PC's.  4) It had to be flexible enough for me to take some creative shots as well as simple enough for non professionals to point and shoot.  5) And the image quality had to be great.  Cost was a consideration but I wanted something that I would own for a while.  My other camera I was considering was the Nikon Coolpix 775 which was a little less expensive.

1) Manufacturer.  Canon has been making cameras for how long now...  I trust the name and the optics of this company completely, My father has several Canon Cameras and they have always produced great pictures.  And the reviews I read on Canon Models were great.  The Nikon name as a great reputation as well.  But if I personally had to choose between the two manufacturers (all else equal) I'd go with Canon.

2) Durability/Size.  The S110 is the smallest camera I saw (of many)  I looked at Olympus, Nikon, Sony, Fuji, HP and others.  The Canon fits comfortably in the front pocket of my jeans (which worked out great when I went to the pumpkin patch with my daughter) (kindergarten) last month.  There are other small cameras such as the Nikon 775 that are approximately the same size but they are thicker, which would make them uncomfortable in the same scenario.  On the durability issue, the Canon wins there too.  It doesn't get much more durable than all metal construction.  This point also lets you feel comfortable with it in your pocket, (its as if it has its own hard case.  The Nikon seems durable enough (more than most other cameras out there), but the body is made out of plastic.   So a win again for the Canon on size and durability.

3) Works easily with Macs and PC's.  I am much more of a Mac user than a PC user but I want something universal.  Both products have plenty of software for both platforms.  That being the case,  I'd say that this category s a tie.  For me though, Since The Canon S110 is pictured alongside the Mac in many ads, I'd say I was swayed toward the S110.

4) Flexibility/Options.  Upon my initial reviews of the cameras, my only concern about the canon was its apparent lack of manual settings for lighting, flash, etc.  The Nikon seemed to have far more options in this category.  In addition, I wanted a camera that could get good close ups without getting fuzzy .I went feature by feature and setting by setting and in the end the Canon seemed to have all I needed.  you can set the exposure manually, you can set the white balance for various lightings etc.  The camera kind of hides these features however from the casual user in the attempt to increase its simplicity.  The Nikon puts many things right on the dial.  I'd say overall the Nikon has a slight edge on the features and settings from a photographers point of view.  Low light situations may tend to fare better with the Nikon, and the Nikon's flash may be a bit brighter.  One thing however that falls in this category was options and a cool feature of both cameras is the ability to shoot short movies on the cameras.  (they both have the ability to do this, however the canon has a microphone and the Nikon does not.  Therefore the Nikon's movies are silent movies which is great for sporting events, but not to great for situations like a sunday school presentation like I recorded of my oldest son several weeks ago.  So the nod eventually goes overall to the Canon for that reason. (for me anyway)

5) Image quality.  I have been completely impressed with the picture quality from the unit.  I take them all in the highest mode (I have a 96Mb CF card) so that gives me around 100 pictures at that setting.  There are several settings which you can make the image files smaller (the card that comes with the camera is only 8MB).  I have seen samples of pictures from the Nikon and they look very good as well, but obviously I have taken hundreds with the Canon so I can more easily vouch for it.

So after much consideration I chose the Canon S110.  And after having it for three months... I can truly say I have no buyers remorse whatsoever.






            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<