DOC>
<DOCID> 2519 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2004_Dodge_Neon </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_125226225284 </URL>
<TEXT>
            MY EXPERIENCE
I test-drove a Dodge Neon SXT 5-speed sedan at a local dealership. My test drive lasted about twenty minutes and covered city streets, winding secondary roads, and the freeway. 

PERFORMANCE
On my test drive, the Neon didn't feel very energetic. The engine wasn't loud, but it sounded labored in hard acceleration, and the thrust it provided on freeway on-ramps was no better than adequate. Part of this impression was due to the stiff gas pedal, which takes a surprising amount of effort to push down. Once I got used to that unusual trait, the Neon's acceleration felt pleasant enough in moderate, around-town driving. After my test drive, I was surprised to read that the base Neon's acceleration times are actually quite speedy for the economy car class--its 0-60 time is under 8.5 seconds. But those impressive numbers don't translate to a real-world feeling of strength, an impression which probably has a lot to do with that resistant gas pedal and coarse engine note. 

TRANSMISSION/CLUTCH
The transmission was among the Neon's weaker aspects in terms of driver satisfaction. The shifter had long throws, requiring a good deal of arm movement, and its action felt loose and mushy as I moved it from gear to gear. When I came to stoplights, it sometimes took a couple tries to stick the lever into first gear, as it had a tendency to balk in that particular gate. Most other shifts were accomplished without fuss, but changing gears was never fun. Howerver, some compensation came from the Neon's clutch. While it had a slightly long throw, its take-up was smooth and intuitive, allowing me to step off the line without jerking or hesitation.          

STEERING/HANDLING
The Neon fared better in this regard, with road manners that were slightly better than average for its class. On winding roads, the Neon displayed commendable composure, with easy stability and a safe--though not sporty--amount of grip from the tires. A fair amount of body lean kept the Neon from feeling eager under these circumstances, but it felt composed and not entirely out of its element. The Neon's steering responded quickly and accurately, with little of the on-center vagueness that plagues many low-priced cars. Its weighting was a bit light for my tastes, but it felt natural enough. My only real complaint in this department was that the steering lacked road feel, making it slightly numb and reducing its precision on challenging roads. 

RIDE
The Neon's ride was one of its stronger points. It absorbed most bumps comfortably and without harshness, only turning jittery on rough roads. It's also very quiet inside, with little road or wind noise, and a hushed engine note in normal driving. The Neon's body structure is stiff, giving a feeling of solidity over the road. The only issue, and this is a matter of taste, is that the Neon tends to bound and float over dips and rises in the pavement. Sport-minded drivers like myself will find these excess motions annoying, most drivers probably won't be bothered by it. 

INTERIOR
The Neon's interior is its weakest point, and I found it to be a source of constant irritation on my test drive. The interior felt crowded and overstyled, with too many contours and bulges protruding out toward the driver's seat. The A-pillar curved uncomfortably close to my head, and the narrow windshield and thick pillars restricted outward visibility. All of this made the driving position feel somewhat claustrophobic, and I imagine other six-footers would agree. In addition to the interior's intrusive styling, the quality of its materials was unsatisfying. The dash, console, and door panels were covered in a flat, shiny plastic that had me wondering whether they were built by Dodge or Fisher-Price. The silver-plastic console trim and white-faced gauges were supposed to convey a feeling of sportiness, but to me, they looked like tacky afterthoughts. Little details also presented a slew of annoyances. The turn-signal stalk was ridiculously stiff--do they not want you to use your blinkers?--and I had to press a gritty, sticky button on the steering column to get the key out of the ignition. The front windows were power-operated, but for some reason, rear passengers must crank their own--power rear windows are not an option. But to be fair, I should clarify that the Neon was hardly a rolling torture chamber. Its front seats were very comfortable and supportive, and even though the plastics looked cheap, they seemed solidly put together. It was just easy for me to take these basic strengths for granted when I was constantly being annoyed by the little things.    

PRACTICALITY
The Neon is about average for the economy-car class when it comes to practicality. Although the driving position felt cramped and claustrophobic, that was mostly because of the bulgy styling--there was actually plenty of legroom up front. The rear seat was less roomy, and the cushions weren't particularly comfortable, but this is to be expected in a small sedan.  The Neon's trunk was roomy, and the split-folding rear seatback would help expand cargo room when needed.     

RELIABILITY
The Neon's reliability has always been significantly worse than other cars in its class, but in the last year, Consumer Reports has found that it has improved to Average. Given its poor repair record over the years, I was impressed with this recent progress.    

OVERALL
The latest version of the Neon strikes me as a car with a bit of an identity crisis. When the original Neon made its debut in 1994, its biggest strengths were its cute, bug-eyed styling and an exuberant ad campaign where the car shouted "Hi!" to a bemused public. It was always a rough, noisy, cheaply-made car, but no one really cared because its looks were so endearing. Today's Neon is very different, with a more serious look and attitude. Presumably, Dodge decided it was time for a more grown-up image for their smallest car, but in my opinion, they dropped the ball. They took out all the personality, but they didn't add in the quality and refinement that the Neon has always been short of. The result is a lobotomized Neon, devoid of spirit, but still plagued with the same bargain-basement feel as its predecessor. With little character to make up for its relative crudeness, the Neon has lost much of its appeal. If you're considering a Neon because you want to buy an American car (a sentiment I've never understood, considering how globalized auto companies are today), I would suggest looking at a Saturn Ion instead--it's still not as good as the class leaders, but is better than this car. It's also worth noting that most Honda Civics are built in Ohio. If you still decide to go with the Neon, the good news is that it's better than a Chevy Cavalier or Kia Spectra, and that prices are very reasonable. The bad news is that you'll be driving a rather unremarkable car that can't seem to decide what it wants to be when it grows up.  




            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<