DOC>
<DOCID> 25211 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/Konica_KD_200Z_627118 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_61703818884 </URL>
<TEXT>
            This is one review I'm really happy to write because I've enjoyed the KD-200Z so much.  It's even possible it's the best camera I've ever owned.  The word "best" is, of course, entirely subjective.  So let's compare.  

Excluding Brownie's and the like, my first real camera was an Argus C3.  From there I graduated to an Olympus SLR, and finally, for quick fun shots, a Cannon Sure Shot.  Of all, the Olympus was, and still is, my favorite camera when I want really high quality color slides.  Otherwise, the KD-200Z blows them all away, including the Olympus, which cost at least triple the price of the Konica in real time dollars.  I should add that, although I do not list myself as a photographer, my photos have appeared in a number of publications, including NY Times syndication, and won a first place in a national photo contest.  

So what makes the KD-200Z so special?

First: cost.  When I used my KD-200Z to take impromptu photos at a meeting, a person commented on my new toy (a 2001 Christmas gift), saying, "Oh my, those run about $700, don't they?"  Because the KD-200Z was a gift, I only found out later that my "$700" toy actually cost $200, after a $50 rebate. 

Second: Picture Quality.  Earlier digital cameras that I'd played around with seemed to take great pictures of people indoors, with only adequate to lousy results when used outdoors.  Distant vistas all but dissolved and nothing beyond a certain range ever seemed to come out sharply.  Each new line of digital devices improved until, thank goodness, the newer ones seem to have mastered the problem.

Third: Size.  This baby can be taken anywhere.  It fits in any pocket, including the one on your shirt.  You can wander around a casino, for example, sneaking photos of your companion losing his/her shirt.  (Many casinos have wised-up and now invite you to practice your photography inside their establishments).

Fourth: Versatility.  Look up digital cameras and versatility is what you see touted most.  The KD-200Z is no slacker in this department.  No film, of course, and it will also take 15 second movies.  It has both a viewfinder and a viewing screen. The viewing screen is invaluable when you don't want to draw attention to the fact that you're taking pictures.  In addition to the Auto Mode, it has seven others.  I've found all of them useful, especially the close-up mode.  There are also three picture definition settings: Economy (my choice for electronic viewing), Fine, and Super Fine (best for framed photo enlargements).   You can also set up the camera's many other features, such as time/date.  

With this camera you can take pictures of yourself.  Hold it at arms length, strike your pose, and press the button.  Although photos taken in this manner, plus those framed on the viewing screen, may be a bit lopsided, you can later crop and enhance them with computer photo software.  Using the Economy setting (to keep the size within computer screen limits), the jpeg format reduces the number of bytes so a photo does not overburden the e-mail recipient's patience or available memory.

Minuses:  If you aren't careful, you will consume batteries like they were pieces of popcorn.  My KD-200Z came with a CR-V3 lithium battery, which ran out of juice the second time I used it.  Appalled then, I have since learned that you cannot use this camera as a miniature movie theater.  If you want to save on batteries, turn the camera off when not taking pictures.  Use the flash sparingly. The KD-200Z will also run on two AA batteries, my preference because they are less expensive and available everywhere.  Always carry spares.  I've found that Duracell Ultra AAs when purchased in bulk are well worth the difference in price

Like all cameras, a flash is effective only so many feet out from the camera.  If you are taking distant shots in low light, turn the flash off.  However, you must have a stable platform to get a sharp picture.  I was disappointed in my sunsets until I used a tripod and timer.  You can also brace the camera on a flat surface. 

The included SD Memory Card is only 8MB, meaning, you should buy a larger card, such as the SimpleTech 64MB MultiMediaCard, selling for a few cents under $30 as of this (original) writing.  With the larger card you can take 650 photos in the Economy picture setting--just right for a vacation!

The most fun I've had with the camera was taking nearly 500 photos on a Spain-France tour.  You can see these and other photos on my web site, beginning at 
http://mywebpages.comcast.net/mcgilwe/latitudes.htm

When you first pick up the KD-200Z you may feel slightly intimidated.  I did.  It's a feeling you will get over after a couple of sessions.  It's all in the book, except maybe the computer stuff.  However, since you are reading this online you probably already know how to plug in the USB cable and download onto your hard drive for viewing, editing or whatever.  Personally, I love being able to pluck a gem from an otherwise crummy photo and print only that gem.  

I've taken photos of old Kodachrome slides and other photos that turned out virtually as good as the originals. I've shot through a telescope lens and caught a hummingbird at rest.  The Konica KD-200Z is a truly remarkable piece of equipment that I've found limited only by this user's imagination.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<