DOC>
<DOCID> 26141 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Hyundai_Sonata </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_71224299140 </URL>
<TEXT>
            A few weeks ago, my husband and I decided it was time to buy me a new car. My old car had 150 plus miles on it and we didn&#146t figure it was going to last much longer. My husband gave me a figure for a monthly payment and told me to go find one.

My husband figured that with my budget, we could probably only afford a used car, but with some heavy-duty research I discovered I did have a few choices in the new category. Hmmm, new car or used, difficult choice, not!

After test-driving several cars, I found myself with a choice, a Ford Focus wagon, or a Hyundai Sonata. I have to admit, I was really tempted by the Focus, and it had somewhat better gas mileage and was a very serviceable safe car. The Hyundai however was in a different class altogether. 

I was already impressed with what I had read about the Sonata on the web, and the pictures showed me an awesome looking car. But it was a Hyundai and to tell you the truth, I was still expecting a tin can when I got to the dealership. I was pleasantly surprised however. 

The dealership had 3 Sonatas available to choose from. A silver gls without a sunroof, a ruby red gls with a sunroof, and a white pearl colored lx with a sunroof.  I test-drove the ruby red one (which is a really pretty color but more maroon imho).

The first thing I noticed (other than the snazzy exterior styling) as the door itself. Having been half expecting a tin can, as I mentioned earlier, I was pleasantly surprised by the substantial feel of the door and handle. I also liked the style of door handle it was equipped with. It is one of those handles you can wrap your hand around and pull one side up, rather than hooking your fingers under a ledge and pulling up.

Once in the car, I was very impressed by the luxury feel of the interior. It is an interior designed for color, as well as function. The leather wrapper steering wheel is made so you don&#146t have to peer over it to see your displays on the dash. The displays are large and easy to read, as well as being well lit in the dark. On the left is a RPM gauge; on the right is a speedometer. Nestled in between them, up top, are a temp gauge and an fuel gauge. These are all mostly round. To the left and right, as well as on the bottom there are various lights, such as the engine light and door open light. The steering wheel it easily tilt able to your comfort. 

The handle to the gearshift is also leather wrapped and comfortable. The knobs and buttons on the heater/A/C unit are again, large, well marked and easy to see. It was also equipped with a combo radio/cd player/cassette deck with very nice sound (again easy to see and operate the buttons). The ashtray, located under the A/C unit, opens easily with a touch and the lighter is prominently placed right next to it. 

In the center console there is a tray for &#147stuff&#148 with an extra power outlet, a place to put your cell phone or cigarettes, the gear shift, touch to open cup holder with 2 spots, and a nice combo arm rest/ storage area. The storage bin is actually sectioned, with a section on top for things you use often, and a deeper one underneath with room for CDs or whatever else you decide to place there. The emergency brake is right next to the drive on the side of the center console.
The glove box is extremely spacious as well, but does not lock.

The legroom is great and the seats are very nicely appointed. (Including headrests, which adjust, not only up and down, but also forward. A neat little detail I think) and very adjustable. All 5 seatbelts in the car and 3 point belts, with the center back being detachable to allow the 60/40 back seats to fold down. The center back seatbelt is also made so you can place a car seat in it without the addition of a locking clamp, which I found very useful. All 3 rear seatbelts are equipped with the LATCH anchor system which allows you to tether the top of a car seat to the car, creating a more secure seat attachment and the outboard rear seats are equipped with the &#147ISOFIX&#148 system, which while requiring a special car seat (that I found at k mart, very reasonable priced) completely eliminates seatbelts from the equation, which is a relief for parents like me who HATE installing car seats. 

The front belts are equipped with a seatbelt pretensioner system and a force limiter. Also, along with the obligatory front air bags, it is also equipped with side airbags. Crunch resistance is built in to the frame of the car in several ways, and it has front and rear roll bars. The front passenger seat is also equipped with a weight sensor, which lets the car know if there is anyone in the seat in the case of an accident so the airbags do not go off unnecessarily. They do NOT judge how heavy the passenger is and decide whether there is a kid in the front so you still have to put the kids in back however.

The model I drove was an automatic equipped with a nifty shiftronic tranny, which is a lot of fun to play with. What it basically is is an automatic you can switch to a clutch less manual. There would appear to be quite a few safeguards put in however, which keep it from being the fun toy it could be. You have to be going certain speeds before it will let you shift, most annoying however is that what I think to be the most important safeguard isn&#146t there. There appears to be no safeguard against accidentally knocking the stick from drive into shiftronic mode. You have to watch it, as it is relatively easy to do. Not that you will damage your car too bad most of the time, but you might find yourself in manual 1st gear pulling out into traffic when you think you are in automatic. This is pretty much the only safety issue I see in this car but I had to mention it. It is great when going up hills to give the engine the extra oomph it needs.
 
Which brings me to the engine, this model comes equipped with a V6, which could be a bit more powerful but still is, in my opinion, in the acceptable range. I find it does lose about 3 to 5 miles an hour on hills until I switch it into manual and shift it down to 3rd. it performs pretty respectably otherwise. As I break it in the gas mileage seems to be getting better. I am not a mechanic so I cannot say too much about it otherwise, but it certainly pumps out the heat when I need it. (And in North Pole, Alaska, I need it)

The turning radius is respectable and the suspension provides a very smooth ride. The Sonata feels like a luxury car overall.  

After much consideration, this being my first new car, I decided on the Sonata. With two cars to choose from, both being respectable, serviceable cars, I chose the one with style over the one with better gas mileage. I have now put close to 500 miles on it and it seems I like it better every time I drive it.  I think I am going to be very happy with it. I think I have just about covered it. I did however want to thank the rest of the people here at Epinions who reviewed this car and the others I considered. You all were an immense help in making my decision. I will be updating this as I go, to let you know what I think after I have had my Sonata for a while.
Till then
Lylah
March 9, 2003- Over 3500 miles on it now and it is still fabulous! Very dependable and roomy. 

I should at this point mention the awesome customer service and support I am recieving from Hyundai. After the sale they don't just forget about you. We have received communications from them several times to ask how the car is and how we like it. Also, when they discovered the engine was slighty less powerful than they had stated, they called us to tell us, then proceeded to add another whole year to our warranty!

I will post more at a later date.
Lylah
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<