DOC>
<DOCID> 26241 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2004_Lexus_RX_330 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_126194126468 </URL>
<TEXT>
            In desperate need of an SUV, my parents bought the new RX330.  The final decision came down to a choice between the BMW X5 and 2004 Lexus RX330.  We bought this car because we figured that we couldn't go wrong, considering the earlier model RX300 was a hot selling item with few minor complaints.  When my mother drove the new car to the front door, I was in awe by the beauty of car, and it's modern trendy looks.

We went out to dinner, and I was allowed to drive it.  With my brother and mom in the back seat enjoying the new DVD system, and my dad in the passenger seat, we took a smooth, quiet ride through the neighborhood.  The steering is loose compared to some other cars that I drive, but the handling (revised steering) is really good.  It is a powerful car, I am not going to lie.  It handles well in the snow, and I don't have to worry about slipping and sliding all over the place, especially on all the hills by me.  

There are so many features that the Lexus RX330 have to offer.  The controls on the steering wheel are very convenient, so I don't have to look down when changing a radio station or the volume.  There is a sunglass holder in the car, adjustable and movable compartments, satellite radio stations, front seat arm rests, powered seats to get the exact positioning you like, heated seats, DVD player, navigation system, computerized mileage information, adjustable back seats, garage door openers, etc.  All these options are within reach and could not be placed in a better location for the driver's convenience.  The trunk space is enormous and it's a powered trunk.  With the press of a button it opens and closes!  The expensive looking wood trim leather interior completes the car.  When my friends saw this car, they were in shock!

This vehicle seats 5 people.  The gas mileage for the Lexus RX 330 is city: 20mpg, highway: 26mpg.  The four wheel drive is can achieve an improved 18-mg in the city and 24-mpg on the highway.  This car is comparable to the Acura MDX, Infiniti FX45, and Volvo XC90.  The second row seats both slide and recline for maximum comfort.  

The mere smoothness on rough roads and the comfort of the car was so impressive.  This is due to the stiffer body structure, redesigned active engine mount, new sound absorption materials, and refined aerodynamic details.  The RX330 is slightly larger than the older version.  It is equipped with a 3.3L V-6(230-bhp) and 5-speed automatic, which are standard.  It can go from zero to sixty mph in 7.8 seconds.  The car's safety features include ABS Brakes and driver-passenger-side airbags.  The really helpful option is the all new swiveling headlights.  Also, when in reverse, the rear view mirrors go down in order for you to see more of the curb.  A lot of the luxurious features are standard such as the 4 wheel anti-lock brakes with brake assists.   When I hit the brakes, it's a perfect touch that will do it; the firmness is unbelievable.  While going around sharp bends, have no more worries that you will not be able to see at night because the headlights turn as the car turns.  Speaking about sharp turns, all RX 330 models are equipped with the Vehicle Stability Control System (VCS) which helps control loss of lateral traction while cornering.  A tire monitor system also can be of some assistance, in the event of tire under-inflation.  The RX 330 also offers a roof rack, alloy wheels, and power tilt/telescoping steering wheel with memory, cruise control, which come in handy.  How cool is this:  Rain Sensing Windshield Wipers!  The Lexus RX 330 comes in 9 different colors!  The base price is $35,175 which isn't all that bad, considering it is a Lexus SUV.  

I love driving it!  If I want to go on a joyride, I would definitely take out the Lexus.  It is so soothing, comfortable, and relaxing to drive!  There is so much power within this vehicle that you do not have to worry whether driving long distance, on the highway, in the city, or just around town.  I definitely recommend it to families with children and SUV lovers out there!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<