DOC>
<DOCID> 26638 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_BMW_Z3 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_47966883460 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My wife and I just bought a brand-new BMW Z3 Coupe yesterday.  Dealers seem to want to get rid of this car and we got it for significantly under invoice.  This was my wife's car so she was choosing.  As I'm a bit over 6'3, I said she could have any car she wanted as long as I fit in it.  She was initially caught between a 2002 Audi A4 1.8t and a Mercedes-Benz SLK230 (I'll review these too if I have time).  I kept telling her that she should at least go LOOK at the BMW 3-series coupe, a 325 or a 330.  Anyway, we got to the BMW dealership and her eye immediately fell on the Z3 coupe.  The coupe has more room in the back than the convertible which she'll find useful for storing her school books, etc. (she's in school right now).  The coupe also handles a little better due to a more rigid construction, and doesn't have the annoying plastic rear window.

One drive in that coupe for either of us, and it was the most fun vehicle I've ever driven.  My wife rented a Viper for me for my birthday a couple years ago, and that was a crazy car.  However, as a good performance driver but not a great one it was hard to modulate all that power in the Viper.  I tried doing a 0-60 run with the Viper and the first couple times I just sat at the end of the road smoking my tires.  This can be fun but gets expensive if they're your own tires.  The BMW has DSC (dynamic stability control) so you can do bonehead moves right away like floor the accelerator and crank the wheel, and it just looks after you.  This makes the BMW more fun to drive the first time out.  We're planning on taking a performance driving course at a track soon to help us learn how to drive our new BMW better.

Anwyays, I'd tried a Z3 a couple years ago and had written it off as Too Small for me.  So when my wife fell in love with the Z3 coupe I felt like God might have felt when Adam ate the apple in the garden ... "And the LORD God commanded the man, 'You are free to eat from any tree in the garden; but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil'".  With all these great cars to choose from, why did she have to fall in LOVE with the one I can't fit in?  Why?!?

So she made me go back to the dealership and sit in it for a while longer.  Finally I agreed to withdraw my veto on the vehicle, and she bought it yesterday.  This was probably a good move, as now my wife owes me Big Time.  Bwuuuaaahahhahahahaa.

The interior of the vehicle is a nice one, if you're under, say, 6 feet tall.  For me, if I sit in the seats the way they're designed, my neck is bent.  So I have to crouch quite a bit to drive the vehicle.  Although the Mercedes SLK has less headroom on paper, in reality it's a much more roomy interior due to the seat design or something.  However, my wife found that the bulkhead under the steering wheel got in the way of her knees.  The retractable hardtop on the SLK is very very cool and in no way would I say the SLK is a poor handler, but if you drive the BMW you will realize that in terms of performance, there is just no way to put the Mercedes and the BMW in the same league.  I guess it depends what you're looking for.

Our vehicle is missing the "computer" functions, i.e. fuel range, average fuel economy, etc.  I can't figure out why BMW didn't just add that as standard since it's only a $300 option.  There's a nice analog clock in place of the computer, but they could have easily found room for both.  We got the sunroof which also only costs $300 MSRP.  It tilts but doesn't retract, and has no shade option but I find it makes me feel less claustrophobic.  I also didn't get heated seats as we live in Southern California and if I want to go snowboarding we'll take our Jeep.  If you're looking for an automatic transmission, go to a Buick dealership.  If you even consider purchasing this vehicle with an automatic (unless you have a physical impairment to prevent you from shifting your own gears), do us all a favour and just go shop somewhere else... :-0

The vehicle just has plain old A/C, no dual- or even single-zone climate control.  That's OK though, I'm fine with that.  Climate control is just a spiffy doodad anyways.  I guess dual-zone would have been nice though so my wife could crank her side up and I could keep my side nice and cold.  The SLK has dual-zone climate control in a convertible (?!), while the Audi, well, just go sit in an Audi A4 some time to see how nice an entry-level luxury sports sedan should be.  Beautiful.  The BMW's Harman Kardon sound system is superb, but if you want a dealer-installed CD changer it goes in the trunk (or the glove box?) and they'll try to charge you $750 for it.  Ouch.  We got the single disc in dash.

So there you have it.  If you're looking for a crazy fast, insane handling, unique (I think it's cool looking, but most disagree) vehicle and you have a bit of cash, take a look at the Z Coupe.  If you have a bit more cash, look at the M Coupe.  I didn't test drive this because we couldn't afford it and I didn't want to tarnish our happiness with our new vehicle, but even the "normal" 3.0 Z Coupe that we have can do 0-60 in under 6 seconds and has about the same amount of power as the previous generation M Coupe, so we're very happy people!  Last night I got up to 100mph on the freeway (don't tell anyone) in a matter of seconds, and it felt like maybe 70 in another car.  This car is fast fast fast fast fast.  It's electronically limited to 128 which seemed kind of slow until I realized I was going 100 last night.  Then the low speed limiter didn't feel like such a bad thing.  I just bid on a radar detector on eBay after getting home last night.

There's my review on this vehicle.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<