DOC>
<DOCID> 26636 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_BMW_Z3 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_12014358148 </URL>
<TEXT>
            We baby boomers still have an urge for a car that is nothing but pure unadulterated fun. I recall the mixed emotions I had owning a Fiat X1/9 20 years ago..... it ran great, when it wasn't in the shop. Remember, we were the ones who bought up all those MG's and muscle cars. 

Well finally, auto makers have gotten the two seat roadster concept right. These cars are probably affordable to no one under 30. This is the only advantage of aging. 

Today there are about a half dozen well made quality roadsters available. They range from the Mazda Miata at around $20,000 to Toyotas, Hondas, Audis, BMWs, Mercedes and Porsches up to $60,000. All of them are pretty good cars. The BMW Z3 just might be the best of the breed, depending on what's important to you.

This is an outstanding car. It is exceptionally well made, it runs beautifully, and it is huge fun to drive. It costs a lot, but I think it's worth it. If you drive one, you'll probably agree.

STYLING
The styling is basically unchanged since the Z3 was introduced in 1996. It has a classic look. I have always been in love with the way this roadster looks. Styling is subjective, but I feel this is the most beautiful roadster built. I got mine in a charcoal metallic with black leather interior and black top. I opted for the aluminum interior trim (at $300!) to give it a high tech look. The amber gauges on black create an airplane cockpit feel. (You pilots will appreciate this.) The analog clock is a nice touch. If you value style, the Z3 might be for you.

PERFORMANCE
I pretty much test drove everything made, and this Z3 is HOT. It hugs the road. It accelerates effortlessly. The 5 speed transmission is a joy. The car goes where you point it. The turning circle is tiny. The Z3 is powerful, agile, and steers and breaks beautifully. The engine purrs....

This is a vehicle in which you have to actively participate in driving. You MUST drive defensively. Hardly anyone can see you. The car is so responsive and quick that you can change lanes if you sneeze. This is not a car for the lazy driver...

I opted for the 2.5 liter inline 6 which delivers 184 hp. There is a larger engine available (a 3.0 liter at 225 hp. The larger six DOES deliver more power but not enough to justify the $5,000 upcharge. When you order the 3.0 you also get larger tires and rims. The 2.5 is enough car for me. If you really want to go crazy, order the M Roadster which has a 3.2 liter inline 6 that delivers 240 hp. If I had any real class, I would have gotten the M.

QUALITY
Fortunately, it seems all the important components were imported from Germany. The car seems very well assembled. Time will tell.

OPTIONS
There are way too many options for a car in this price category. Most come preequipped with needless high cost options like "power roof" for $750. This is basically a motor from a blender that retracts the top... after you manually move it yourself about six inches from the windshield. I have tried a few without this option, and trust me - it is totally unnecessary.

Charging $495 for "metallic paint," having a $645 
"destination charge" (this car was assembled about 250 miles from my home, $300 for Aluminum trim, or $1100 for two leather seat covers seems outrageous. But I suppose, if you worry about price, you probably should have bought a Honda del Sol. I just would have preferred if they sold the car complete for a set price. I'll bet anything they have never sold one with cloth interior. It's all a marketing thing...

INTERIOR
Cramped. But this is not unusual for this type of vehicle. Pack light. 

I was disappointed in the plastic rear window (even the CHEAPEST car in this class, the Miata, has a glass window with a defroster.) The rear window is downright tacky in a vehicle in this price range. You should fully expect to replace the plastic window every two or three years. 

I opted for the black leather because the tan leather looks ridiculous. Evidentally, Germans LIKE leather with tiny leopard spots... The black leather is nice, but the lack of an armrest seems odd. (You can buy one for $55 from www.Z3Solutions.com)

PRESTIGE
Intangibles may have little value to you. This is a Bimmer, not a Chevy, a Toyota or a Ford. You actually get more respect when you drive a luxury marque. If this matters to you it may add value. If it doesn't, save your money.

I like the fact that Z3's are pretty scarce. The Miata is a fine car, and a bargain to boot, but everybody and his brother has one. Sure, the Porsche Boxster is rarer but it costs more, and it's almost ugly by comparison. The Porsche is a great car. They say it runs great... but I like the look and feel of the Z3 better. Another intangible.

I got 22 mpg on my first tank, despite the fact that I drive like a total idiot. Most of you would do much better.

DEALER SUPPORT
The dealership was very impressive. I bought mine from Crown BMW in Greensboro. Crown is a mega-dealer that sells about 8 different makes on different lots. I was expecting the usual Dodge or Nissan sales approach. Instead, I was treated to highly trained and skilled sales professionals who operate very similar to Lexus or Mercedes folks. Evidentally, Crown doesn't switch sales people from lot to lot. The buying experience was definitely in line with the product. Upscale, polite, and genuinely helpful. 

SUMMARY
This is one of the least practical vehicles you can buy. However, it is huge fun. It is pure sports car with a convertable top. Don't even think about buying this unless you have another vehicle. It is useless for shopping, or carrying luggage, or long distance trips. If you can afford it, and want the performance and prestige, then go for it. You only live once.....
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<