DOC>
<DOCID> 27267 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Pontiac_Firebird </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-7A23-B61FC82-39669CE8-prod3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            This is my first car, and I am aware that it is an inanimate object, but I love it.
I am a man who places very small importance on material objects, and I truly believe that the best things in life aren't things at all. It is when the Gods above give me a day with the sun shinning, warm, breezy temperatures and little traffic to get in my way, that I am truly one happy camper.
The year: 1967.  The problem: the Ford Mustang.  The solution: the Pontiac Firebird.  
Ford brought out the Mustang in 1964 and that was the start of the pony-car war.  Three years later, GM introduced the Chevy Camaro and Pontiac Firebird. Since then, the Mustang has continually sold more than both GM cars, and the Camaro is by far too popular for me. So, my natural choice, not to mention I got a real good deal on one, was the Firebird.
Please don't stereotype me as a hockey-watching, beer-guzzling, grease monkey who knows more about balancing a 350 crank than balancing a chequebook, nor as an old man who bought the thing when it first came out and has kept in a garage the past 30 years. I am 21-year-old student, the fourth owner of this particular Firebird and I am quite simply someone who admires classic American automotive engineering and styling.  And, by owning such a car, I needn't worry about it breaking down since the engine is a big piece of iron that is by far easier to repair than any engine out today.   
The two best reasons to buy one of these is that it turns heads everywhere it goes and it leaves all other cars lost in a cloud of smoke with the lingering scent of burnt BF Goodrich's. The styling of this car is remarkable with its aggressive good looks and beautifully curved lines. My particular Firebird has a rare 326 cu. inch engine mated to a two-speed powerglide transmission.  Most people frown when they find out that it has such a transmission, however, in a drag race, I can beat most cars in first gear alone.  While all the hopped up Civic's and Prelude's shift through all of their five gears, losing time by shifting I may add, I keep my car in first and my foot on the floor. By the time I put it in second the race is well over and the loser has turned the nearest corner, avoiding any kind of eye contact with me.
If the stunning demeanor doesn't turn heads, then the sound of the exhaust will.  My neighbours are never happy when I come home at 3 in the morning, but when you hear the finely tuned grumble coming from true dual exhaust, you can't help but appreciate the cars of yesteryear.  
Inside, you'll find two gauges: a speedometer and a gas gauge.  That's really all you need to know; how fast you're going and how much longer you can travel. 
The seats are simple leather buckets... no lumbar, no headrest, no power anything.  They just move back and forth, depending on your height.  Legroom in the front is actually quite good, though the back is kind of cozy and tight.
On the downside, the place you're most likely to see me, or any car like this, is at the gas station.  At an estimated 15 mpg, my car is keeping me from becoming a rich, rich man. Also, it loses a lot of points in the safety category. In a year which many cars offered seat belts as an option, airbags weren't even invented, and the bigger the car you drove, the safer you were, the Firebird was still considered an unsafe vehicle.  But then again, safety wasn't a big deal back in the '60s. The only safety feature on this car is the lap belts, which most people can't figure out how to use in this day of shoulder belts. I can't begin to tell you how often I've been told that my seatbelt is broken. 
Well, that's my car, my very first car.  It's fast and it's good looking.  Like I said earlier, I don't put too much value on material objects and I believe Denis Waitley said it best when he was quoted as saying: &quot;That which you create in beauty and goodness and truth lives on for all time to come. Don't spend your life accumulating material objects that will only turn to dust and ashes.&quot;
Well, Pontiac really did, and continues to create, a beautiful car. (Though the 1980s models could be forgotten.) It truly will be a sad day when my wonderful car turns to dust, so I can only smile everytime I get in and hear the thunderous bellow of the engine on start-up. That is until I sell it for a mini-van to accommodate my family when I get one.  (Yeah, right.)
	
<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<