DOC>
<DOCID> 27841 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1997_Mitsubishi_Galant </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_109400395396 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Well the Galant is mainly an alternate vehicle choice for those who are looking for a slightly larger Honda Accord or Toyota Camry. While it is much more economical, being that Mitsubishi cars generally do not have as high of a resale value. The 2.4L L4 uses almost as much gas as the V6 in the Camry or Accord. If you compare this car to other cars nearer it's size such as the Altima or Contour I believe it is a much nicer and luxurious car. Then engine isn't as powerful of the V6 used in other mid-size sedans but the 141hp one Mitsubishi uses is seems to have more guts than other 4 cylinder engines of it's class. The automatic transmission tones it down quite a lot and has an annoying pause when you want to downshift, but when paired with the 5 speed it's a great match.

The controls are very easy to use. The cruise control is a lever sticking out of the steering column but it does have a hidden on and off switch that is sometimes a bear to find. The climate controls are well seprated from the stereo controls so there should be no problem there. The controls for both are also very easy to read. There is a clock in the middle above the climate controls which is very nice and easy for all passengers to read. The gauge cluster is nice and easy to read with the speedometer showing a sporty 140mph and a redline at 6000rpms. The overdrive setting on the automatic transmission is a button on the side of the stick, very easy to use. The lights and wipers are just the basic ones on the steering column most of us are used to. The controls are probably some of the most simple I have seen.

Interior comfort is fine for a young family, but when the kids start to get older the rear seats just aren't as big as some of the other mid-size sedans and the moon roof on the LS model removes 2" of rear headroom. The two front seats are comfortable for long road-trips with the drivers side having a lumbar support. The stereo when you turn it on has power and sounds good, many speakers get crackly and distorted at high volumes, this does not. The road noise gets pretty loud around 80mph but is fine around town and at legal highway speeds. The visibility in this car is very good with outside mirrors that are large and almost no obstructions to the drivers vision. We took a couple of long trips in this car, once with 4 people from Salt Lake, Utah to Seattle, Washington and it was fine and not cramped at all.

The reliability of the Galant depends on how much you take care of your car. As long as you don't beat the crap out of the car it will take care of you for a very long time. But if you don't treat your car well it is more likely to break down than a Toyota or Honda. The one we had was when I was first driving so I used to red-line the car often and it never had problems, would always shift smooth and never overheated.

The steering handling works amazing for a small front wheel drive car since it does have four wheel independent suspension. I remember one time racing on the freeway (not recommended) with a V6 Sonota she got in front of me because of a slow moving car in my lane. I then passed the car in front of me and pulled beside her shifting into 4th gear and passed her quickly but someone cut into my lane right in front of me so I pulled a hard right and the steering was very responsive and the tires gripped well for speeds around 110mph pulling me quickly into the other lane saving me from probably killing myself. ANYWAY, I have some fun experiences with that car and it always handled very smooth and responsive. The turn circle is very good, better than other cars in it's class. Braking is also very good with the anti-lock brakes that were optional on this car, I'm not sure about the normal ones because I have no experience with those. But the handling of that car served me well in the past.

Overall I liked this car a lot, it was the first car I really got to drive and being 16 it really put it to the test, now that I've driven a lot more cars and own one of my own (don't have to drive Grandpa's car anymore) I have to say the handling of this car still compares rather highly, even to my Supra. Even if the engine isn't the most powerful in it's class it isn't gutless by any means. My friends and I have a lot of good memories with that car. It's gone now because my Grandpa got rear ended by a Suburban at a stoplight which was traveling about 30mph, the car took all the damage and he didn't get injured at all, so that shows it's rather safe. If you are looking for a family car or even a work car this definitely gets my approval, although I have a lot of good memories of this car it's not the best car for a young guy like myself but it's still fun and was a great car for me at the time because of the simplicity to drive it.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<