DOC>
<DOCID> 28053 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Chevrolet_Impala </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_40884604548 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Background
 
I have taken two trips with the 2001 Chevrolet Impala.  The first trip that I took was out to Des Moines, Iowa from Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  It was roughly a trip of 760 miles.  The second trip, which I will draw the majority of inferences from, was from Milwaukee down to New Orleans and points in between.  The mileage of the second trip was right around 3,000 miles for the week.  

Styling and Operable Controls Layout

General Motors does a great job at making everything accessible to the driver and also the passengers.  In the Impala it was not difficult to change the radio station, turn on the wipers or even the headlights.  This was comforting because an unfamiliar car can be a danger when you are trying to find the right button to touch to turn something on.  

The Impala is a fairly attractive car that has a pleasant interior.  I am not fully aware of the different colors of interior that are available, but it seems that the majority of base Impalas have a tan color, cloth interior.  The car's styling is important because of the lack of blind spots, which can not only be annoying to potential car buyers, but also a serious hazard.  

Power and Handling

The car that I took to Des Moines had the 3.4-liter V-6 engine in it and it felt like there was adequate power for the ride.  I had one other passenger with me and the car had sufficient power and acceleration to feel confident on the highway on-ramps and at higher speeds.  The car handled very well.  I was able to venture on some of the side roads and there was no feeling of a lack of control or the feeling that the car was just floating.  The car hugged the corners well and it felt as if there was little if any body roll.

On the trip down to New Orleans, I had three of my friends with me, none of which weigh over 230 pounds.  With the combined weight of the passengers and luggage, the 3.4-liter engine was grossly inadequate.  We had difficulty of reaching highway speeds without almost putting the gas pedal down to the floor.  There was no problem maintaining speeds over the posted limits, but getting there took a fair amount of time.  The car handled beautifully with a full load and at it was exceptional on the narrow two lane roads of rural Louisiana.  

Note:  GM does offer a 3.8 Liter V-6 as an option on this vehicle, it offers 200 hp, and it is recommended if you would like the car to accelerate with greater ease.

Comfort Level

The seats in the Impala were moderately comfortable.  I felt some back strain in between long trips, which should be reasonably expected because there was no lumbar option on either car.     There were no complaints from the people sitting in back.  There was adequate legroom for even one person with a height of 6'4".  The ability to have armrests and cup-holders in the front and the back seats was also a thoughtful design.

Braking
"WOW, crazy $%#@!!!!!!" That is what we all said as we flew over a set of railroad tracks on a hill at 65 miles per hour and realized there was a stop sign about sixty feet away.  We were all thankful that GM did not overlook the brakes as I slammed them on to avoid being broadsided by a Semi.  The stopping power of the Anti-lock brakes was tremendous and it was comforting to realize that if I needed to stop in a hurry the car would allow me to do so.  

Fuel Economy
With the gas prices everywhere being simply outrageous, it was great realizing that the car was getting close to 380 miles to a tank, and that the average gas mileage was close to 28 miles per gallon.  The EPA tells you to expect 21 in the city and 32 on the freeway for the 3.4-liter engine.  If you would choose the 3.8-Liter engine the city mileage would fall to 19 in the city and 29 on the freeway.  

Overall

I felt that this was a perfect car for every driving experience, whether you want to take the car to work every day, the rural two lane roads for a weekend trip, or you need to take the car cross-country for a week.  I was pleased with the car overall and that says a lot considering the lack of options that the car had.  With power seats or lumbar, the car's comfort level would be greatly increased.  The 3.8-Liter engine would also have been a nice addition considering, I am 23 and my need for speed is always constant.  The great thing was having air-conditioning as a standard option, especially in the 98 degree temperatures of Louisiana in July.  I would honestly recommend this car to anyone who was looking for a great car for a decent price.           
      

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<