DOC>
<DOCID> 28055 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Chevrolet_Impala </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-7681-392D4578-39BD4FB1-prod5 </URL>
<TEXT>
            The all-new Chevy Impala raised a lot of questions in my mind.  The first thing that I thought when I heard about it was, "Great, GM is wussifying another classic nameplate by putting it on a wimpy front-wheel-drive car."  My second thought was "Is wussifying a word?"  Strongly doubting that last thought, I walked into my local Chevrolet dealer and selected a model pretty much at random to test-drive.  

I checked my bias at the door and never looked back.

The 2001 Impala is based on the same vehicle platform as the Pontiac Grand Prix, Buick Regal, and Oldsmobile Intrigue, however it shares no body panels with any of them.  Its styling immediately struck me as sleek, powerful and elegant, with the exception of the rear end.  The huge red reflector and four huge taillamps were fairly ugly in my opinion, and should've been done differently.  Besides, everyone knows Impalas have 6 taillights, not four.

That notwithstanding, I climbed into the interior of the fully-loaded LS test car, and was impressed by the tastefully designed, but slightly conservative-looking interior.  the light tan leather upholstery and carpet were a good contrast to the jet-black exterior of the car, and the seats themselves were firm yet supple, providing ample comfort without feeling like a sofa on wheels.  The model I tested was fully loaded, including premium stereo with satellite controls on the steering wheel, a driver information center, power heated seats, heated mirrors, I'm telling you this thing had everything, even a sunroof.
Safety wise, this car had dual front airbags, as well as side-impact airbags.  Also, the car's generally large body will also help protect you in case the worst should happen.

Room in the interior of the car was generous, providing plenty of head and legroom both front and rear.  Not surprising since this is an EPA-classified large car.  Even room in the trunk was generous (Motor Trend Magazine measured over 17 cubic feet of trunk space), and if that's not enough, a split-folding rear seat will give you even more room.

However, despite all these creature comforts, this is no rolling couch.  The base engine is a 3.4L V6 that produces around 180HP.  My LS test model was equipped with GM's venerable Series II 3800 V6, producing 200HP and 225 lb/ft of torque.  It was mated to GM's four-speed automatic with overdrive, and it delivered plenty of low-end as well as mid-range punch.  The exhaust note was also tuned very well, being whisper-quiet at ilde and coasting.  Stepping on the gas, however, allowed a smile-inducing growl to issue from the exhaust, providing a bit of an enthusiasts edge to this capable engine.  

Of course, you need to stop that car once you've got it going, and this car definitely handles that task admirably.  Four-wheel-discs with ABS handle the deceleration duties on the Impala, and can halt the car from 60 MPH in a brief and rather unexciting 130 feet.  Trust me folks, unexciting is good when you've got the brake pedal mashed to the floor when trying to avoid a disastrous collision.

Of course, I'd be silly to leave out the handling abilities of this car, since it's one of its best assets.  The Impala has four-wheel independent suspension and power rack-and-pinion steering, providing a solid, planted-to-the-road feel, with little roll or dive.  This car handles deceptively well, especially for a 3400-pound full-size family sedan.  Despite the sport-sedan handling, the car still gives a soft, comfortable ride on the freeway, cruising over road irregularities and expansion joints like they're not even there.  

There are a couple detractors to this otherwise excellent vehicle.  First is visibility.  While for the most part, visibility isn't a problem in this car, its rather fat rear end does pose some difficulty when backing up.  Also, again due to this car's derriere, extra caution should be used when passing or changing lanes.

The only other detractor is the price.  At over 26,000 dollars, this car ain't cheap.  However, this model in particular had every option in the book, so selecting a few less options would be wise if you're trying to save some cash.

In general, Chevy has done it again with another excellent vehicle that has once again managed to shatter all my expectations.  Now where's the SS version? Chevy, are you listening?!!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<