DOC>
<DOCID> 28201 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Dodge_Durango </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_43852271236 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my Durango new and currently have over 47,000 miles on it. So, I guess you can consider this opinion a result of a long-term test.

My Durango is the SLT+ with 5.9L V8 and 99% of all the options available during this model year.

I use the Durango for everything, work or play. I've had it off road more than once, sometimes in very rough and hazardous terrain (with pictures to prove it). The Durango is not the best vehicle for off road travel, although it does quite well. It lacks in ground clearance, the stock tires should be more aggressive, and the SUV itself is a bit too heavy in sand and soft mud. It has a tendency to pull a rear wheel off the ground in tight flex situations. The characteristics are mainly due to the fact that the Durango is also an excellent vehicle for ON ROAD use. Think of it as a compromise. The best of both worlds. How many offroaders do you know that can comfortably cruise down the highway in luxury?

Travel in the snow takes some experience to get it right. It does well, but only if the driver is aggressive. Due to the weight, it has a tendency to "PUSH" and slide through. Like most 4-wheel drive vehicles, you need to give it gas to turn. I feel quite safe in this vehicle in the worst of weather.

The 5.9L V8 is plenty of power. Towing large loads is a breeze, provided that you don't have too much tongue weight. I tow small trailers (often towing motorcycles) on a regular basis and occasionally pull loads near or in excess of its rated capacities (dual axle car haulers, with car).

From day one, I ran premium (higher octane) fuels and consistently got about 13.5mpg. After about a year, I started burning the "Cheap Stuff" and my fuel mileage increased to about 16.5mpg. I should have been using the factory-recommended fuel from the beginning. When towing large and heavy loads (near max), average fuel economy will drop to approx 11-12mpg which I felt was still pretty good considering the weight. Light loads with show little difference.

The short wheelbase is great for maneuverability. Turning radius is tighter than anything I've seen for a vehicle of this size. The is a huge plus off road, not to mention parking.

The Dual AC is a must for rear passengers. Unfortunately after about 40,000 miles, I found the need to recharge the freon.

The Infinity audio system is tops. Wish I had something this nice in my home.

The third row seat is great for kids, but kind of cramped for larger adults. You will also find, that it is difficult to get to this third row if you have TWO child seats in the second row seats, because the second row seats need to be flipped forward to get to the rear (you can flip them if a child seat is there). I only discovered this after the birth of my second child. One seat is no problem. Put the kids in the back seat? As most parents will know, that's too far away and out of reach. Our fix for this problem was the purchase of a minivan. We still have the Durango.

No real issues with this vehicle other than some minor troubles. Recently had to replace the battery (which I thought to be a little early) and the thermostat housing is leaking a very small amount of coolant. Just replaced the original tires at approx 47,000 miles. Went with the original Wranglers because they a good compromise for on/off road situations. Some other small issues were resolved under warranty, like drivers seat "rocking" and a busted plastic housing for the drivers seat power controls.

I'll be the first to admit, that I use and ABUSE my Durango. Fortunately, it takes everything I can throw at it. Snow, sleet, rain, hail, dirt, kids, deer strikes, small animals, soccer and softball games, towing, tugging, pushing, and whatever else comes along.

It works hard. It plays hard. Check back periodically as I will be updating my opinion as more miles are accumulated.


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<