DOC>
<DOCID> 29188 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Dodge_Neon </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_47497186948 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I decided to trade in a '96 Mercury Tracer that I loved, so this car had it's work cut out to impress me. It did. Let me start out by telling you this is a 4 door Highline Sport. So it has the bigger motor, many others have complained of a slow, loud, buzzy motor...mine flies, no buzziness. It is a 2.0 liter, 16 valve motor shoe-horned into the car. 

Exterior: I find it hard to see out the back of these cars, they have a very high rear end and mine has a tail. Whomever invented frameless windows should be tared and feathered, they give burglars very easy, quick access in to your car and they allow wind noise at highways speeds (although I don't have this problem). Everyone has their own opinions on look, I think they look decent. The car is quick, from a stop, no hesitation like both Ford and GM. the tranny usually shifts pretty smoothly, although it shifts hard when you slowly accelerate, like when you come around a corner...speed up slowly...and have to turn again. Under normal or fast driving conditions, it's good, but don't drive like grandma or the old man with a hat driving a tan Buick. I'm not crazy about my automatic being only a 3 speed, could someone pass the overdrive over here please...thank you!

Interior: Who came up with the idea that when we are driving, we want to look at a set of wipers? I hate that...hide em. Where did the hood go? sorry but I like seeing the hood, they slope them too much now a days. This isn't a specific complaint of the Neon, but it has these conditions too. Anyways, the seats were very comfortable, I sat in them for a long round trip of about 3,500 miles. I have a bad back and experienced no back pain or discomfort at all, mine must have came with better seats than some of the others had. At 5' 11", I had more than enough leg room and at least a foot above my head. All controls and gauges are easily readable and accessible. My only complaint is that the heater/ac control takes awhile to get used to, hard to read and takes your eyes off the road for awhile. The radio is great, has a unique way of formatting your presets, hit once for station A, hit the same button again for station B. The 6 speaker sound system is excellent sounding, if you like sub-woofers you'd swear this car had them. I've never had a car that I had to turn the bass down below full (no I'm not a bass-head) the tweaters are seperately mounted from the front speakers, this is usually only found in expensive stereos. The car warms up instantly (I live in the northeast) and gives you very hot heat quickly. The ac is also very quick. My car's wiper system doesn't have the one-time wipe, when it is misty...I have delay, just not a one time wipe, strange. Vents are all well placed, has seperate side vents for the windows that are adequate. The car lacks a light for the vanity mirror on the driver's side, and no mirror at all on the passenger side. Window handles (manual) are placed a little too low and far away, you get used to them. Cup holders are way too low and inaccessible, they could accomodate more sizes too. The ashtray is too low and placed directly behind the (auto) gear shift, that engineer...well nevermind. The rear seat is 60/40 for convenience. The trunk is small and the wheel wells cut into the space thats left. The car rides nice, although it's very stiff on pavement that has bubbled upward from heat and trucks. Steering is very precise, but not overly tight.

I really love this car, although it might not sound that way in my review. I try to be as critical as I can be to be honest so you can make the decision that best fits you. I didn't comment on some accessories because some people don't have them. It's unfair for me to say 'they were too cheap to include power mirrors' when my car wasn't spec'd with them. I bought this car used about 2 weeks ago with 33,000 on the clock. But I've already put 4,000 on it, so I feel I can give a fair review of it.

For someone who has never been a fan of Dodge (and the other Chrysler brands), 'The New Dodge' attitude has improved greatly. Their quality, motors, looks, feel, all have improved greatly since the mid-90's when they over-hauled themselves. I am impressed and very happy with my car, it's just too bad they killed the looks of the Neons with the 2000+ models.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<