DOC>
<DOCID> 29998 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Mercedes_Benz_C_Class </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_64793316996 </URL>
<TEXT>
            PLEASE NOTE UPDATE BELOW - SIGNIFICANT CHANGE OF OPINION
SECOND UPDATE ADDED - JANUARY 2004 - :

Among the cars/SUV's that we investigated prior to settling upon the C 320 Sport Wagon:

Jeep Grand Cherokee
Jeep Liberty
Land Rover Discovery
Acura MDX
VW Passat Wagon
Volvo AWD Wagon
BMW 5-series Wagon
BMW X-5
Taurus Wagon
Ford Explorer
Chevy Tahoe
GMC Envoy
Mercedes M-Series
Saab 9-5 Wagon
Pontiac Aztek (just to scare our teenage children ...)

And I suspect that we would have been happy with many of the vehicles on this list.  But we chose the 320 Wagon and have been very happy with the car since our purchase.

The Sport Wagon comes with a higher performance drivetrain combo than the bulk of the C-series cars.  The six-cylinder engine, with rear wheel drive, pulls VERY strongly all the way up to 80 mph (0 to 60 in just under 7.0 seconds).  The suspension is tight without being jarring; a very sporty feel for a Mercedes, but not to be confused with a Porshe or even a Miata ...  The exterior styling, IMO, is very stylish and distinguishes the car from all other competitors in the class (certainly the Volvo wagon, the BMW wagons, the Passat wagon, even the nearest competitor, the Audi wagon).  

The car is built with Mercedes quality.  Doors and trim fit beautifully.  The paint is superior (we chose the classic Silver premium paint, ... then again, most paint options on Mercedes anymore are considered "premium").  The engine is very quiet at idle and cruising speed, but has a bit of an aggressive (and pleasing) tone on heavy acceleration.  Mercedes doesn't recommend an initial check-up until about 6 months.  And we've had absolutely no quality issues so far - about 4 months after purchase.

The car corners on wet & dry pavement with an extremely secure, slightly heavy feel.  There is no hint of driving a wagon when putting the car through it's paces.  Body lean is very minimal; there is NO creaking or chassis noise; and road noises are well dampened.

The interior styling is very elegant.  The leather seats have just the right amount of bolstering, and have a very attractive, yet subtle stitching.  The entire stretch of dashboard is shaped very nicely.  The center console displays are understated yet easy to read.  We did not select the optional GPS/mapping system, but have seen the system in operation and it is a terrific option, rivaling the still state-of-the-art Acura system.  The driver's display portion of the dash features an analog speedo, with a smaller fuel gauge and tach. display in the upper right & left corners.  The center of the driver's display is reserved for the digital readout of a wide range of data (speed, rpm, temp, service miles, radio station or CD track playing, optional settings, etc.).  To my taste, this central digital readout portion of the dash display is too clunky looking and detracts from an otherwise simple, elegant display.  Sorta like sticking a Casio digital watch display smack dab in the middle of a Tag Hauer time piece.  At night, the contrast between the digital read-out portion of the display and the remainder of the lighted displays is too great (the read-out outshines the remainder of the displays by too great a margin).

Our other concern has to do with the Bose stereo.  The stereo is nicely integrated with other features, and can be operated using buttons on the steering wheel.  It is easy to program and easy to operate.  However, the bass response is pathetic.  With the bass controls maximized, you begin to hear bass tones with a little bit of authority, but nothing like I want to hear them.  Mind you, I'm not a rap fan, and prefer my bass to be accurate rather than loud.  But it needs to be audible.  The only bass tones that are reproduced well are the percussive sounds (such as a bass drum or the plucking of a bass string) or bass tones with the stereo at VERY loud listening levels.  Mercedes and Bose have been unable to assist me in boosting the low-end response of the stereo, with Bose finally telling me that there was really nothing, short of tearing out the integrated amplifier/receiver, that could be done to improve the sound of the stereo in the C 320 Wagon.  Take a listen to the stereo under normal listening conditions before you buy the car so that you are sure you know what you're getting into ...  I expected much more from the Bose/Mercedes system than what we're getting.  My Passat stereo sounds much better (a run-of-the-mill Infinity system).  My 1988 Mercedes 420 SEL has an old Becker system that has a better all-around sound to it than the C 320 Wagon's system.  We have checked other C320's to make sure it's not just our car, and others on the lot had the same deficiency.  We also checked other models (the M series, the S-500 series, etc.) and all other Mercedes models have GREAT sound systems.  Oh well ...

My family loves riding in this car.  The leg room in the back seats is a little bit tight, but still O.K. for long trips.  The rear seats fold completely flat to create a nice large storage area.  With the rear seats up, the cargo area is just a little bit cramped (although still bigger than the BMW & Passat wagon's cargo areas) due to the sloped roof-line.

The car gets decent gas mileage for such a strong engine and such a relatively heavy car - 17 mpg in city driving, 25 mpg on the interstates.  There is no need to manually check the oil, that's accomplished by an automatic sensing system.  The automatic wipers really work too!  A very nice option that comes on all cars sold in the states.  The driver's and passenger's seats plus the steering wheel and headrests are easily adjustable via a series of armrest controls.  Each seat will store three separate seat/ headrest/ steering wheel configurations.  You can tell the car whether or not you want the seats to automatically move back upon entering & exiting the car.  The climate control works well, sensing relatively small variations in temperature and moving air quickly if need be.  There is a separately controlled air vent in the rear that pumps a good quantity of air into that area as well.  We haven't yet hit the really hot months here in Indiana, ... so the climate system hasn't yet been challenged very hard.

We are very happy with the car overall.  It is still one of the very few in our area and draws a number of comments (yes, ... more than a few "why would you ever get a Mercedes WAGON" types of comments, but plenty of "that's the best looking wagon I've seen" and "cool car" and "wow, the wagon looks sportier than the sedan" types of comments too).

I'm looking forward to a day when a BMW 5 series wagon pulls up next to mine at a stop-light.  I'm thinking he's toast.  We'll see ...

Check it out.  You'll be impressed.

FOUR MONTH UPDATE (added 9/6/2):

We have encountered three significant problems with our Mercedes:

1.  The engine sucked enough water into the cylinders after driving through about 10 yards of water, 16 inches deep at it's deepest, to cause the rods to break.  The engine was so damaged that the entire small block had to be replaced.  Mercedes had no explanation for why so much water would be sucked into the engine when the top of the water was about 8 inches below the air intake ports.  It seems to me that the bumper/grill/radiator assembly must have acted as a scoop to draw a large volume of water up to the top/front of the engine compartment where the twin intake ports are located.  This was an insurance repair, not a warranty repair.

2.  The transmission started jumping out of drive about 1 week ago, but would pop back in if you manipulated the tiptronic/manual transmission (I'm not sure it's a Tiptronic or just a "Tiptronic-like" transmission ...).  Mercedes was unconcerned when first reported.  The transmission stuck in drive yesterday; when the engine was shut-off, it would not restart.  In the shop it went for another five days.  SECOND UPDATE:  September 11, 2002 - Transmission froze again; another tow-truck trip to the shop; not sure how long repair will take. 

3.  Our local Mercedes dealer (World-Wide Motors in Indianapolis, IN) has provided anything but premium service since the moment we drove out of the parking lot.  Unreturned phone calls & e-mails, lack of follow-thru on promised repairs or information, and a female-unfriendly attitude have soured our opinion of the overall Mercedes-ownership experience.  My wife is the owner of the car (her hard work & money paid for the car).  Yet the Service Representatives seem to only respond to me.  Despite the fact that we only gave them my wife's business number and our home number - and despite the fact that only my wife ever takes the car to the service department, they have called me at my office and on my cell phone to discuss the issues we've had with the car.  They don't call my wife.  And when she is in the service department, they treat her inappropriately, e.g. ignoring her and paying attention to the men first, speaking to her as though she was a ten year old and knew nothing about cars, repeatedly calling her "darling" and other inappropriate terms of endearment.

While the car is a joy when it is running, it isn't running as much as it should.  Two major repairs within the first 4 months of ownership is below Yugo standards.  And the local Mercedes-Benz service department ranks somewhere below the license branch in terms of it's ability to meet the needs of its customers, let alone wow 'em with the extra touches you might expect of a premium auto dealership.

We have yet to hear any form of apology for our experience to-date.  I'm guessing such an attitude indicates that they are used to such flaws and breakdowns.

JANUARY 2004 UPDATE:

The following problems have cropped-up repeatedly (none have been "1 timers"):

Cabin air control unit - control gears have stripped twice so far, causing a loud ratcheting noise that repeats until a cog catches (and eventually, it wears completely out and make the noise continually)in the dash.  Service says "sorry, it's a design problem".

Transmission - continues to get stuck in park, requiring a tow and a replacement of a cheap plastic part in the transmission.   Another "sorry, it's a design problem".

Brake rotors - we've been informed that Mercedes brake rotors typically need replacement every 40 to 50,000 miles (ours hit at 38,000 miles).  They are designed that way, ... it is considered normal ($500 that they don't tell you about in the "you won't have to pay a dime during the warranty period for preventive and routine maintenance" baloney recited in the "welcome, new owner" session.

Our neighbor got his 600 SEL at about the same time that we purchased our 320 wagon.  He has already sold it, experiencing many of the same problems we did (his was a $100K car), including the ineffective service process and staff.  Our experience has now dropped to the lowest we have ever experienced in our lives as car owners.  We are going to the Nissan/Infiniti dealer this coming weekend, unloading this unfortunately flawed car, and driving away in either a Maxima, a G-35, or some other well-engineered car from a company that knows something about long-term customer service.

If our experience is anything like that of other Mercedes owners, and we suspect that it is, STAY AWAY FROM THIS HAS-BEEN LUXURY MANUFACTURER.

            
<label> No
<rating>  1.0

</DOC>
<