DOC>
<DOCID> 30383 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Pontiac_Aztek </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_101300342404 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Christmas Eve, 2002 and an ice storm hits our area as we drive home from the National Cathedral some time close to midnight.  Driving slowly, we hit a black patch under a thin layer of white snow and spin to the right to the bank that bordered this single-lane road.  Up the bank we go, fly in the air a few elongated seconds, and land, still spinning, upside-down staring at the headlights of the traffic behind us.  Neither my husband, nor myself were hurt, we just had that once-in-a-lifetime experience where you get to hang upside-down in our seatbelts and wonder how you got that way.  

Yes, when you make the decision to buy an SUV you are risking a much higher rollover rate - we knew that when we bought it, only 2 months before.  What saved us however, we are convinced, is that "mini-van-esque" roundness to the roof of the Aztek.  Unlike most SUVs, with flat roofs and criminal numbers of people getting maimed or killed from the roofs collapsing from the weight of the car as it lands upside-down, the Aztek's shape did the egg-thing and completely supported the vehicle as we bounced and span on the roof.  I have yet to read any reports discussing this specific point, but my husband and I are convinced that in this accident (where any vehicle would probably have flipped, not just the SUV) our Aztek's kooky design saved our necks.  This is why, as soon as we got home, we started to look for another Aztek to replace this one that had died so early (while the roof held up, most engine blocks are not designed to be upside-down and so therefore, ours cracked and was totalled).

So aside from saving our lives, the Aztek has been a money-saver.  With pitiful numbers of vacations per year, my husband and I have become professional 'weekend warriors'.  Last weekend, for instance, we took off from work on Friday at 5:00pm, landed in St. Augustine, Florida at 5:00am, slept on the beach, spent a wonderful two days in the sunshine that felt like a week, and then drove the night through to be at work 9:00am Monday.  An absolutely nutty excursion - if it weren't for the Aztek.  We have the tent, and we have the blow-up mattress, and we are able to save not only airline money, but motel money too - by sleeping in the car (near a beach that has public showers for a hygienic holiday).  The tent isn't actually 100% necessary (and somewhat impractical if you end up trying to sleep 'stealthily' in a parking lot) my husband is 6'3" and he and I are able to sleep very comfortably on the mattress in the back with the tailgate up and the car all closed up.  Investing in a good roof-rack container helps free up room inside, if you are going to do this often.  I am a very light sleeper and picky about my beds - and would never have thought I could sleep in a car - ever.  The Aztek however, has become our second bedroom, giving us good nights of sleep not only on our weekend holidays but also on evenings out when neither of us wants to be the 'designated driver'.

Other things I love about the Aztek are the fact that the rear seats are not raised like most SUV's and so you don't tip over every time you round the corner; you can sit in the back as comfortably as you would in a car.  You have all the room inside to use it like a camper for a road trip, but it doesn't have a great big honkin' exterior that disables it from parking lot driving or tight turns, or small garages.  I got a big kick out of transferring something out of our Aztek's back end into that of a friend's Nissan Xterra and it didn't fit!!  The Aztek's low bumper is also nice:  other SUVs and trucks have their bumpers coming out a mile off the ground, making them absolutely useless if you hit anything that isn't another SUV or Mac Truck.  The Aztek's low bumper means that when a kid in his pimped-out Honda Civic bumps into you in stop-go traffic, he meets your bumper instead of metal-to-paint.

For those of you who feel bad from people making fun of the way it looks, you'll get your ego boosted again when you're parked on the beach with the tent up (easy 60-second assembly after you do it once) for shade (instead of a goofy sun umbrella), tunes blaring from the excellent sound system operable from the tailgate, and people are staring jealously at your excellent set-up and wondering why their cars can't do the same!

Things I wish our Aztek had: rear windshield wiper, "oh sh*t" handles hung over the window instead of in front, manual drive.

For anyone who likes to have fun in life, and yet is practical-minded, and a penny-pincher, the Aztek is the perfect vehicle for you.  We're moving next year to the UK and because we love this vehicle so much, are seriously contemplating the highly impractical idea of shipping it and trying to maintain it far away from any Pontiac dealers...and on the wrong side of the road!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<