DOC>
<DOCID> 30874 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/2003_Honda_Element </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_85428309636 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Dateline 12/15/2002:

The Honda Element will be released in about four days.  I keep trying to put it out of my mind, but no, the damn thing keeps getting in the way of me thinking about important things like work, Christmas, New Years, etcetera.  I like the Honda Civic Si.  They don't sell well, and as a result are priced at or below invoice.  They are also plentiful to choose from.  The Si is a hoot to drive, and currently has nice 1.9% for 60 month financing incentives.  So what's the problem?  Go with the Si move on with your life.  But that crazy ugly boxed wonder keeps snapping into my consciousness.  

OK, so what will it hurt?  I had a salesman mail me a brochure.  Hmmm... now I&#146m very intrigued.  I keep telling myself that don't fit the marketing demographic of 18-24 (Gen Y) segment.  I'm 30, not "hip" (I'm pretty sure), and I think in terms of saving money and planning rather than being spontaneous like a Gen Y kid would.  I also have less hair than a Gen Y kid.  ANYWAY!

Dateline 12/19/02:

I get a call from the salesman.  Honda ships ONE DX (the lower trim model) to each dealership to make the street date.  I'll just swing by and look, I tell myself.  

Oh my lord, that is hideous, I think to myself.  One step above an Aztek for sure.  I walk around the Element, unknowingly enthralled by its power.  My eyes are fixated to the contrast of the squared plastic cladding and the deep blue body panels.  

The DX is a weird creature.  Intended to be a blank slate for people to customize as they see fit (and yes, they WILL do that with this SUV), it almost does a disservice to the EX model for its lack of equipment.  I am horrified by the crappy steel DX rims (EX have much more pleasing alloy), no A/C (DX), and no radio (DX).  I tell myself that this thing is for someone else.  Then I sit in it and like the position.  I drove it, but it was evening, and too dark to see it well.  I left with an uneasy impression from the DX.  But this car was still in my head, so I continued to research it.  One thing was certain, the DX was out.  The EX would be the only way to go, if at all.

Dateline 12/31/02:

I got the call.  The truck had just arrived with a single blue EX 2WD.  I wanted a 4WD, but hey, people in hell want ice water.

This time I had barely beaten four others to come see it.  Word was getting out about this car.  I got to drive it and inspect it much closer in daylight.  In an instant the car sold me.  

MY IMPRESSIONS:
The seating position is great.  The interior is way cool.  The roof is very tall!  There's a sort of Cheech and Chong quality woven in the fiber of this car.  I can't put my finger on it exactly.  Bottom line: it's a sweet ride.

The Element has funky rubber-trimmed seats with tight water-resistant cloth in the center.  The rear seats are cloth on the DX, rubber and cloth (with embedded cup holders) on the EX.  There's EXCELLENT legroom in the back.  It's about as roomy as a first class cabin legroom on an airplane.  The rear seats are around two inches higher than the front because the floor slopes slightly upward from front to rear.  That little extra height gives an almost panoramic view for passengers.  Rear seats recline ALL THE WAY, which is very nice, and in that position they can be folded up and latched onto the side of the cabin in only a few seconds with a piece of hardware used as well by mountain climbers.  The process to fold the rear seats occurs from the back seat and not the rear tailgate of the car.  Rear seats can also be removed, but this takes a few minutes to do.  

The rear windows do not roll down, rather they just vent outward. 

Getting in the back is not nearly as easy as jumping in the back of a Honda CRV, however, if you have kids or flexible friends, or non-arthritic pets, it's not that big a deal.  Getting OUT of the rear seats requires two things to happen:  You must reach up and open the FRONT door which may require moving the chair forward (if you have a gut like me).  Next you pop open the rear doors open.  And yes, the rear doors must be closed before the fronts will close.  

WARNING: Opening the clamshell doors in public almost CERTAINLY attracts people to the car.  It's like a drug.  It's the absolute coolest aspect of this car!  This car gets attention.  Lots of attention!  Depending on your marriage status, it may help or hurt you in the meat market called life.

The floors are great.  I'm not sure of the actual material, but it's a very hard but slightly flexible plastic that is a cinch to clean.  Not slick, but not as sticky as the rubber flooring in the Ford Explorer Sport Trac.  And the bluish-grey color hides dirt a little better than that black rubber in the Ford.  This is a fantastic idea.  Forget the floor mats unless you absolutely have to have them.  Carpet, as we all know, is so Gen X.  :)

The driver's seat is slightly more comfortable or on par with the Honda CRV, which is surprising.  The seats are firm in both vehicles.  I prefer the seats in the Honda Pilot, however I do not prefer the price.  I am still trying to adjust to them on long trips.  I think seat comfort is a subjective thing, so go sit in it and listen to your rear end-- not mine.  You do sit more upright than a normal car in the Element, which means there's more weight over your hips.  This may make your long trips more or less comfortable depending on your back situation (yes, old folks do need to consider this).

The layout of the dash is beautiful.  It took nearly no time for me to adjust to driving the Element.  Having the shifter in the center and NOT on the steering column saves you from having to tilt your head every time you want to see the radio station.  The shifter NEVER gets in the way, and has an additional button for overdrive-off situations, like towing a jet ski.  

Speaking of towing, keep in mind you are limited to about 1500lbs, which means about a jet ski and trailer.  There is no hitch receiver or prewired power point, so you are on your own on this one.  Honda now sells a hitch for the Element.  The wiring will probably have to be done by a service shop.

On the EX, the front driver's seat has an armrest; however I think it's about one inch too low.  Maybe it's my squatty arms.  Who knows.  I won't lose sleep over it.  The front passenger seat needs an armrest too on the EX.

The center console is a few inches above the floor level, and has two cup holders and several cubbies for stuff.  A power point here would have been da bomb for cellular phones ala the Toyota Matrix and Pontiac Vibe, but I'm not complaining.  I think the DX shares this component with the EX.  The cup holders are decent.  Maybe the designers finally measured a plastic 20oz coke bottle!  There's a parking brake down there too.  Basic stuff.  It needs to be said that while the front seats aren't crammed together, there's no "walk-able" space between the seats.  Also, if you have fat dogs that like to sit in that space on trips, like in my family, there is not a level voluminous space for them in the Element.  This is NOT a minivan, and if you need that access to the front seat, you better choose a Caravan or an Odyssey.  On the flip side, if you want to contain hyper pets (or kids), with the Element, you can simply cram a pillow between the seats and fido will not get under the driver's feet at the wrong moment.

In front of the forward passenger seat on the dash is a nice row with a colored lip (accenting the external color you choose) that you can use to store phones, pens, change, an apartment gate card, or cigarettes if you smoke 'em (I don't).  Nestled behind the lip, on the EX model only, is a power point and a stereo jack for use with the AUXILIARY mode on the radio.  I use this to plug in my Apple iPod MP3 player (see my other Epinion review on this device).  This was a MAJOR selling point for me as I despise tape adapters and fancy radios that flip and show cute graphics, but lack a stereo AUX in on the front plate.  So having this capability and not having to swap out the factory unit was a HUGE plus for me.  

Helping things was the fact that the EX comes equipped with a 270 watt single CD in-dash stereo with seven, yes seven, speakers.  There are four in the doors, two tweeters on the front pillars, and a nice sub which can be adjusted independently from the other speakers from the deck.  Plug in your Apple iPod, hit the AUX button, and BOOM, you&#146ve got a great sounding ride that can be plenty loud.  No, it's not the BEST radio I have ever heard, but it is good enough for me to not even consider replacing.  Also, since thieves rarely steal stock radios, all the better.  Every car in my family that was ever broken into had a non-stock radio.

The overhead center console (EX only) has a huge storage area with a door that clips closed.  The bottom of the storage area is a plastic mesh, which lets you see what's in there without feeling around.  Sadly, the little door does not lock (the glove compartment does), but it's still quite nice.  The console also has two VERY BRIGHT map lights.

The materials used in the Element are pretty good when compared to those used in the newest Volkswagens, which says a lot when looking at the price-point of this car.  The armrests and other components are rubber-lined, which have a nice feel.  The rest is a higher quality plastic.  The wheel, which is NOT leather trimmed, has a nice feel.  I think they could get away with a few more millimeters of thickness.

Another very cool aspect of this vehicle is the rear tailgate.  It's a little like a truck and a little like a minivan.  There is a key port on the rear gate.  The top portion goes up making loading groceries a breeze.  It is very light compared to the full door weight of an Odyssey or Caravan; however, you do have to close it with some force to get a tight latch.  Single handed operation is easy.  The bottom portion, with the flick of a latch on the top, drops like a pickup truck tailgate.  It's also very light, and can support about 400lbs of downward weight.  

There are two grocery hooks, one on each side of the cargo area.  Cargo placed on the hard floor WILL slide around, so you will eventually need a box or a tray if you put small things back there often.  Honda makes a ton of accessories for the Element, so with a little more cash, this can be alleviated if it becomes a problem for you.

The A/C is virtually identical to the CRV.  The knobs are silky smooth, and can be operated with gloves on.  I live in Texas.  It can get awfully humid and hot here, and the A/C must blow cold.  This is non-negotiable in this state.  My coworker has a black on black Civic (2003), and it doesn't blow cold enough, fast enough for my liking.  The Element's A/C has been a pleasant surprise so far this summer.  I added tint, and that helps a bunch.

The rear windows and tailgate glass have nice factory tint.  The front windows have almost no tint, which may bother you.  I was OK with it until summer came.  The tint is necessary here in Texas.  I installed 35% (street legal) on the front windows, and 20% (which is darker than 35%) on the back three windows. 

The driver side door has a door lock button, but the passenger door lacks one.  Obviously this is a cost saving feature that is not a big deal on a car this size.

Visibility is excellent.  Once you get used to driving in a box, it feels naturally great.  Due to the high roofline and the exceptionally long side windows, there is an abundant amount of sunlight that gets in.  To offset, Honda installed VERY LARGE visors with the longest pull out extenders I have ever seen.  They help when the sun is at your side.   Still, too much light can get in, but that may just be one of the things you accept with a vehicle of this type.  The visors could stand to be about an inch taller, but that might interfere with you being able to see traffic signals.  Since I am short (5'7"), I sit a little lower in the chair, and thus get more light in the eyes.

Maneuverability is fantastic!  Being a little shorter than the CRV and having little overhang on the wheels gives the Element a nimble feel for U-turns and tight parking.  It just weaves in and out without effort!  It's a GREAT size for city driving.  It's a bit thinner than the CRV, yet taller, and the result is a car that is quite roomy, but feels compact in traffic.

Road noice is acceptable.  Noise depends greatly on the type of road and wind.  On the freeway, hearing your passengers is not an issue.  The CRV, with carpet more plush interior seems a bit more quiet inside.

Some may think that because the Element is tall it leans in turns.  Let me tell you I cannot feel this car lean anymore than my compact pickup I had before it.  It is a sturdy platform whose only problem is the occasional strong gust of wind along its boxy body.  Even then, it's not a big deal.

Designed in California and built in Ohio, the Element is comprised of nearly 65% American and Canadian parts.  It is the most domestic import I've ever been in.  The build quality is near perfect.  Great for a first year run!  As my Element loosens up with use, it will be interesting to see how it progresses.  I must say I'm proud to have purchased a car that was built with American hands and contributes to the economy of the folks that built it.

The engine has more than adequate power to accelerate and pass.  It's quiet, smooth, and has an idle so calm I can barely feel it or hear it.  Despite being a four cylinder, it has an amazing amount of torque.  At times it feels like a small six cylinder.  It is a nice wonder to behold.  But understand that this car is no powerhouse, it is a LOVE WAGON, baby!  It is not intended for street racing or revving on the line.  Unless your daily commute is driving up steep mountains fully loaded, I think the Element's power plant will serve you well.  

Average fuel economy is 23 mph.  I do wish the tank were a bit larger.  On the flip side, I do lots of driving here in Texas (everything is kinda spread out), so I make more fuel stops.

OMISSION #1:
Honda goofed.  They should have included the remote keyless entry on the EX model.  Without it, you must lock the front door with your key, which is a bit inconvenient if you have your hands full.  A nice feature, though, is that when you do lock it with the key, ALL doors lock.  However, when you UNLOCK it with the key, ONLY the driver door unlocks.  I'm a little ticked I have to shell out $150 for the keyless remote system, then have it installed for another $50-100.  It's my strong suggestion they add this to the 2004 EX standard.  Raise the price of the car, if necessary, but ADD IT HONDA!

OMISSION #2:
The rear privacy roll-up piece that fits between the rear gate and the rear seats that hides the payload contents would have been very welcome.  But if I had to choose, the remote keyless would get the nod first.

OMISSION #3:
The moon roof should be standard on the EX, not just the 4WD.  It should be electrical, have a fully opaque cover, and have the ability to open completely rather than just tilt.  They way it is now, it only tilts or has to be removed completely (god forbid it rains quickly).  To my knowledge, there is no cover for it, so if you live in the south, be prepared for an oven behind your head.  To clarify, the sunroof is NOT available on the 2WD DX or EX models.

OMISSION #4:
Side impact airbags should be standard, at least on the EX.

OMISSION #5:
Honda should add an interior latch for the rear hatch, mostly for campers who sleep in the back.

OMISSION #6:
Honda needs to remove the beep beep beep when the door is open and the key is in the ignition.  Some folks like to play their radio when camping, and this beeping is getting in the way of that.  This is kind of a design goof given that the Element is marketed as an out-doorsy vehicle.

SAFETY:
Well, the results of the 2003 Element side impact test performed by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) are in.  While the Element received TOP SCORES on the frontal crash test, it recently performed poorly on the side impact test.  It should be noted that the test unit was not equipped with side impact airbags (which unfortunately are NOT standard on the Element).  It should also be noted that all other comparable SUVs tested in this situation failed as well.  This, however, this does NOT excuse the Honda's performance.  Ford paid for a second test to be performed on an Escape SUV equipped with side airbags.  That vehicle passed the test, so one can reasonably concluded that if you equip your SUV with side impact airbags, you stand a greatly reduced chance of sustaining a life threatening injury.  Keep in mind this side test is much more stringent than the federal government's test, and is designed to simulate being hit by a full size SUV traveling approximately 31 miles per hour.  The Element is expected to receive a high score on the government's side impact test.

If you are in the market for an Element, my advice to you is to get yours equipped with the recently available side impact airbags.
 
Let's hope and push Honda to make this equipment STANDARD on all their vehicles.  Cost and production schedules should NEVER override safety.

4WD vs 2WD:
I cannot comment on the 4WD model as I did not have the opportunity to snag one.  The premium you pay for that equipment is reasonable, and you get that moon roof.  It's not a serious 4WD like a Jeep or Hummer, but I would rather have it if I were riding in rain or mud.  However, considering that I've NEVER been trapped in rain or mud in all my 30 years, I thought the 2WD would be a good bet in my situation.

Unfortunately, I had to pay sticker (and that was after two hours of haggling).  In that time, the car was test driven six times.  The dealer was obviously holding out to see if somebody would pay the throw-out price of $2000 over sticker.  After I began to depart, they caved.  I told myself I'd never buy a car at sticker.  In retrospect, I don't regret it, especially since this car is so reasonably priced and it's a HONDA!

Now that I own this car, I find myself really liking the exterior cladding that I so loathed the first time I laid eyes on it.  It's more attractive and distinctive now.  I'm a flake, what can I say?  The peace of mind knowing that I will not have dings in that area is great.  The 2003 Honda Accord Coupe looks sweet, however how will those smooth doors look after 24 months?  I think not so good.  People are brutal to strangers' cars in parking lots.  Better to have a car that can weather that abuse than not.

Forget how this car is marketed.  Honda is lame... LAME... to focus advertising on the Gen Y segment.  Whether you are 18 or 78, if the Element fits your life, BUY IT.  If you like it, great.  If not, fine.  But nobody can deny, it is fun.  Will it make you cool?  Nope.  But it certainly can make your life more fun, and think of all the nice people you will meet coming to talk to you about it.

THE VERDICT:
People aren't cool because they only wear good looking clothes, or because they are only confident, or just different.  

Prince was (and still is) cool because he had the look, the talent, and the guts to push his brand of music.  George Clinton is cool for the same reasons.  Apple brand computers are cool not simply because they are pretty.  They are certainly that, but they also have the most stable and modern OS that supports OPEN standards. Apple hardware is functional, and the software included is some of the best in the world.  

"Cool" is the total package; the synergy of all the parts working together.  I believe the Honda Element has the total package.  It&#146s a unique looking vehicle that is cleverly functional and amazingly refined.  It's not often that a vehicle comes along and does so many things so well, and has the guts to stand out in the crowd.  It's a very American thing.  This time, however, a little Japanese car that was designed and built in America wins that prize.

Is it ugly?  Yes.  But you may just buy it anyway!  

Now on sale for Generations A through Y.  :)


Here are some pics of mine: http://www.derekknight.com/element

5/03/03 NOTE:  HONDA HAS RECOGNIZED THE WINDSHIELD ISSUE.  THE SERVICE BULLETIN HAS A VIN RANGE, SO I SUSPECT THE PROBLEM HAS BEEN CORRECTED FOR ALL ELEMENTS NOW ROLLING OFF THE LINE.  MY WINDOW WAS REPLACED UNDER WARRANTY.  SEE THE COMMENTS SECTION FOR MORE INFORMATION.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<