DOC>
<DOCID> 31205 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Jeep_Liberty </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_54301331076 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I recently purchased a 2002 Liberty Limited in Stone White. I wanted a small to medium SUV with a capable 4WD system for off road ventures. There were only a few true SUV's that qualified and the Liberty was the best priced of the lot. The others in the running were the Land Rover Discovery, Nissan Xterra and the Jeep Grand Cherokee. Price wise it came down to the Xterra and Liberty and the Liberty won hands down because of its looks and features.

In general, the Liberty comes in two models. The Sport has gray plastic cladding and is less expensive. The Limited has a singular paint scheme and is generally more expensive. You can get either in Two Wheel Drive or Four Wheel Drive. The Limited comes with the Multispeed Automatic and the new 3.7L V6. The Sport comes in either the V6 Automatic or the I4 Manual.

There are also two different 4WD systems to choose from. 

1) The Command-Trac ( NV231 ) gives you 2WD, 4WD Part Time ( off road only ) and 4WD LO ( off road low range for difficult sections ).

2) The Selec-Trac ( NV242 ) gives you 2WD, 4WD Part Time, 4WD LO and 4WD Full Time ( All wheel Drive for street use ).

For the purposes of this review, I will focus on the 2002 Liberty Limited 4x4 with Selec-Trac. This is the top of the line model and has all the features that I wanted and a great price. 

Just a list of the features on my Liberty:

3.7L Power Tech V6 ( 210hp @ 5200rpm and 235#torque @ 4000 rpm )

Multispeed Automatic ( 4 forward speeds with an alternate 2nd gear for deceleration and reverse )

Selec-Trac NV242 4WD ( 2WD, 4WD Part Time, 4WD LO, and 4WD Full time )

Off Road Group ( Trac-Lok rear differential, heavy-duty engine cooling, OWL P235-70-SR16 tires, Tow hooks, Fuel Tank and Transfer Case Skidplates )

ABS Braking, Sunroof, Leather Interior, Overhead mini-Console w/ HomeLink Universal transceiver and Trip Computer, AM-FM-CD w/ 6 Pack CD Changer and Steering Wheels Controls, Infinity premium Six Speaker Sound System, Heated Mirrors, Power Windows, Power Mirrors, Power Doorlocks, Sentry Key Theft Deterrent System and security alarm,trailer Towing Group.

The final sticker price was $28,105.00 plus TTL. The only other two options available were Heated Seats and Side Impact Airbags. My price from the dealer was $26,545.00 plus TTL. On a JeepsUnlimited Forum a discussion was held on discounts received on new Liberty purchases and the discounts were generally between 0% and 6.2% of the window sticker price.

You can build your own Jeep Liberty online @ www.jeep.com to get the combination that you desire. Now, on to the good stuff....

The overall quality of my Liberty is excellent. I have had no problems with my Jeep for the first 10,000 miles. Everything fits and works as designed. The Four Wheel Drive System has performed flawlessly on and off road. I have done some very serious 4 Wheelin' in my Liberty and have surprised many die-hard Jeepsters with the Liberty's ability in the rough stuff. The only problem is with the stock Goodyears. They are not aggressive enough for me, but I understand that 99% of the time they would suit most peoples needs. The Full Time 4WD is a blessing on the street. In slippery conditions, the Liberty handles like it is on dry pavement. I have not had a chance to drive in the snow, but in the rain and mud it inspires confidence. The Full Time 4WD with the 4 Wheel Anti-Lock Brakes has made my street driving much safer.

The 3.7L Power Tech V6 mated to the Multispeed Automatic is smooth and responsive. The Liberty with all the bells and whistles weights in at around 4,100 pounds and this combination moves the Liberty with authority. Don't get me wrong, it is not a sports car but it is more than ample. There are some aftermarket products already available to increase performance such as a Borla Cat Back exhaust system or a Volant Air Intake System. I never seem to be able to leave well enough alone, but that is just me. The fuel mileage is a concern for some people when it comes to the Liberty. It is rated at 16mpg City and 20mpg Highway for the V6 Automatic. This is really in line with similar SUV's with V6's. If you drive with a bit of caution you can get this mileage or a little better. If you have a heavy foot, expect worse. Remember that the Liberty is a 4,100 # SUV with a high roofline.

The interior appointments and stereo are top notch. The leather interior is supple and seems to be wearing well. The electric seats adjust comfortably to any position. The rear split seat configuration is handy when hauling larger items. One note of interest here is that the cargo area is not completely flat when the rear seats are folded down. I have gone camping in my Liberty and have devised a way to sleep fairly comfortably in the back. The cargo area is rather small with the rear seats in the upright position, but it has ample room for everyday things. The Stereo Controls on the back of the steering wheel are nice once you get used to them ( I don't even know where the buttons are on the actual stereo-don't need to know after mastering the steering wheel controls ). The Cruise Control buttons on the front of the steering wheel are also handy once you get used to them. The power window controls are between the front seats. I really have grown to like that location and find it easier than fumbling at the door type controls. The Overhead Console gives the normal MPG, Miles to Empty, Average Fuel Mileage, Instant Fuel mileage ( every 3 seconds ), Elapse Time, Outside Temp and Compass Directions. The HomeLink is great if you don't care for remotes in your vehicle. It has three programmable buttons for three different remote access codes.

The Liberty can be ordered stripped or loaded with a host of features. You can get 2WD, 4WD Command-Trac or 4WD Selec-Trac. You can get a manual transmission inline 4 banger or a smooth V6 automatic. It has a very useful roof rack that Mopar has many accessories for. The aftermarket is slowly adding lift kits, exhaust systems, air intake systems, roof racks, nerf bars, grill guards and others interesting items. I have been pleasantly surprised with my Liberty and am totally satisfied with my purchase. 

Some problems that have cropped up with Liberty Owners:

Lower Ball Joint Failure...can cause quite a bit of damage and/or accident. Upper Ball Joints and Rack & Pinion Steering Bushings are suspect also.

Alignment Problem...pulls to the right on many new Libertys.

Transmissions can be a little jerky at times...the dealer can reprogram the computer to fix.

Front Driveshaft on 4WDs can develop a vibration at 50mph...dealer can and will "fix" under warranty...can come back.

Transmission Solenoid can fail and leave you in the "limp home mode"...the maker of the tranny knows of the problem and sends the dealer the newer version.

Many of these things are magnified with offroad use...




 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<