DOC>
<DOCID> 31892 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1992_Oldsmobile_Achieva </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-45FF-77EF936-395CA99A-prod3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            There seems to be a rule of thumb for certain men that if they see a lone woman walking down the street she's fair game for every whistle, toot, and cat call.  

Especially one in summer heels....thus begins my tale.

Being particularly fond of keeping money in the bank I found myself with a choice of two different cars to take to work one fine morning since the hubby was sick.  I chose his for the former reason, it already had a full tank of gas.  My little ol' dodge was riding on E and I didn't want to have to take out a life savings to fill her up.  (gas prices being what they are)

I made it to work, thirty miles away, with no problems.  But leaving from work ended up an adventure straight out of an Indiana Jones movie, or is it more fitting for Dumb and Dumber?

Going through a semi-large city on the outskirts of my own small town the car suddenly took a mighty belch and proceeded to die in the lower and far too unfamiliar section of the city.  I managed to pull her over to the side of the street and contemplate what had just transpired! Oh yes! My car just died, thus leaving me stranded in hot pants and summer heels in a city I know only fairly and of course, penny pinching ogre that I am only had $2.50 in her pocket and no cell phone!

Knowing a gas station was only 3 blocks away, I locked up the car.  Though I felt the delicious urge to just leave the keys in the car and allow someone else to steal her away. (with my luck they'd just promptly return her with a thanks but no thanks card)

Walking up the street, mind you only 3 blocks, and no big deal, I had more whistles, whoops, and offers than the average dancer at a strip bar. I figured those guys must have been half blinded by the waning sun or delirious with after-work euphoria to be bothering me with that nonsense.

I made it to the gas station and promptly walked up to the phone booth outside.  One of those far too conspicuous phones right smack dab on the corner of a four lane light intersection of course.  Plugging up one ear, I managed to dial the operator 3 times and collect call my way straight to static and numerous hang ups.

No hubby to reach meant no salvation!  What was I going to do?

I had passed a small, out-of-the-way bar on my 3 block excursion and figured that was going to be my only phone.  (I don't remember E.T. having this much trouble phoning home!) I got quarters for my ones at the gas station.  I was going to attempt another try with the phone booth, but walking out I spied a guy ruthlessly beating the receiver of the phone booth against the pole in an attempt to make it work.  I quickly changed plans.

Walking to the bar I felt a little apprehensive.  Just little ol' me looking for a phone.  Walking in I felt every eye on me and even now, I can recall nothing more than what the bar owner looked like and the immediate room surrounding the pay phone in back.  

I asked for the phone and the owner not only pointed it out but apparently thought I had no idea how to use one as he handed me the receiver.  I chucked it full of quarters, laughing hysterically, and was once again greeted by voicemail at home!  

(lost $1.50 of quarters in that transaction)

So here I am, alone at a bar, in heels.  The smoke is thick, the room far too small, and the music very loud.  People are grouped all around the bar and here's me, sinking further and further into the dark recesses of the corner with the phone cupped to my ears.  Calling my mother passed
through my mind, but she was over an hour away.  The last possibility was work itself!  I knew there were people still there (I had left early that day) and called the 800 number, punching in the extensions I could remember and praying someone would pick up!

Finally! My good pal at our company's Help Desk (so appropriately 
named for my situation) answered!  I said who I was and she promptly replied.

&quot;Are you at a party?  Aren't you supposed to be at the doctor's?&quot;

&quot;YES!  But that piece of junk car just dumped my sorry self in the middle of the city!&quot;

To keep from boring you with my long-winded tale, we managed to find someone I knew at work to come and get me.  Thirty minutes later!  

I would spend some time outside on the steps, listening to the owner on his little cell phone asking where his supply of Budweiser was.  (funny story, later that night come to find a semi overturned on the highway, carrying nothing but Budweiser, suds everywhere!) The rest of my time
becoming far too friendly with the corner of the bar and the pay phone.

My tale of being in the bar and outside on the front steps is a collage of moments left to every other young woman's memory of suddenly being stranded somewhere. 

It's uncomfortable, it's nerve wrecking, and should be illegal! HA!

I had several offers for a ride anywhere I wanted.  One guy offered to fly me in his personal plane (somewhere out back) to any city I so desired.  

But as you can see from this Epinion, I'm safe and sound now.  The car far, far away from me at this very moment and a little bit of tales and adventures tucked under my belt.

Funny...I was just crabbing to the hubby the other day that my life was soooooo incredibly boring.  


NOTES:

To date the Achieva has dumped my hubby and myself in Columbus.  To which we meeked our way home (100 miles away), at each other's throats, on a car screaming it was burning up!  

It's died unceremoniously in our own garage.  

It's accelerated and suddenly stopped while passing another car on
the highway.  To my absolute horror!

I hate this car!!

<br><br>
            
<label> No
<rating>  1.0

</DOC>
<