DOC>
<DOCID> 31990 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/511597_Hewlett_Packard_PhotoSmart_215 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_54557445764 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I occasionally sell stuff on eBay and like to post images of my items to cut down on email queries. I used a webcam for a long time with marginal results: the images were small, rather clear and loaded quickly. But this is not what webcams were really made for.

My wife Ann and I were driving home from dinner when I asked if she wanted to stop at Circuit City, which is the equivalent of her asking me if I wanted to stop at Lane Bryant. She reluctantly agreed.

We had been discussing the prospect of buying a digital camera for days now, but only had X-dollars to spend. Her idea was to get a Sony Mavica model with the floppy disk. That would of been fine if I had the money.

Instead, we opted for the Hewlett-Packard PhotoSmart 215. It was 1.3 megapixels with digital zoom. At $129.99, the price was right for us.

Our camera came packed with a few goodies: camera strap, a 4MB HP Compact Flash card (good for 15 standard, 10 fine or 5 superfine images), software and a pack of Energizer E2 AA batteries. Wow, no expenses spared there.

I loaded the software, connected the USB cord, put the batteries in the camera and began to shoot. I took pictures of my cats, my car, my hamster, anything.

How cool is this? I take a picture, load it on the computer and zap! email it to 10,000,000 people in minutes. Since I didn't have a reliable aim-and-shoot camera (all of mine are SLRs with lots of extras), I decided that this digital camera was going to be it.

But something caught my attention just after that decision. After shooting what seemed like only a few images, the batteries were already dying. Yep, those Energizer E2 batteries I thought would last were already farting out on me. Man, what a drag.

No matter. I was determined to make the HP 215 my new aim-and-shoot, even if it meant carrying tons of extra batteries with me. Small potatoes.

During the following weeks, the HP 215 worked like a charm. I enjoyed the convenience of previewing and deleting the images, the immediacy of "processing" them at home and not having to use the flash so often. A film camera would have definitely needed a flash in the situations I found myself in. I also purchased a 32MB Compact Flash card, capable of holding 296 standard images.

I was helping renovate some suites for new tenants at a medical center and took the opportunity to shoot some progress pictures.

Yep, it was working alright. And eating batteries like there was no tomorrow. I soon learned that the batteries would last longer if the LCD screen wasn't used. I also learned that looking through the rangefinder yielded awful results. I don't know who decided that the rangefinder was accurate, but they must have been wearing bifocals when they tested it. Damned if you do, damned if you don't.

More stuff I learned...

- The camera would not work until the flash was fully charged, regardless of if the flash was needed. If I wanted to turn it off, I had to press the wheel-button and enter a menu screen, scroll down and turn it off. User settings (Flash off in regular mode, flash on in superfine mode, etc.) would have been nice.
- If I wanted to shoot an image in "fine" or "superfine" mode, I had to do the same thing: press the wheel-button and choose image quality. 
- Donuts are a happy food. Nobody doesn't like a donut. 

With the exception of my realization that donuts are a happy food, the LCD screen was being used to display text and icons, therefore depleting the battery power even more.

For Christmas, my brother bought Annual Passports for Ann and myself. Cool, now I could really shoot all kinds of crap at Disneyland and delete what I didn't want. Right on.

We went on a Sunday, a day when The Fab Four, an awesome Beatles tribute band, was playing. I'd take some shots of the concert, of the Grim Grinning Ghosts in the Haunted Mansion and the Christmas parade. I was getting used to the functions of the camera, switching between quality and flash modes. I was going to have fun shooting today. At least that was the plan.

During the Fab Four show, I encountered some problems. I took some shots, turning the camera off in between to conserve battery power, that appeared to be fine. I turned on the camera to take another one and the other LCD, the small one that displays images remaining and battery power, had only two letters showing - PC. The only time I would normally see this is when I connected the camera to my computer, to indicate that the connection was okay and that there was communication between the camera and computer. When the camera is not connected to a computer and the LCD shows PC, things are not okay. This message started to appear at about the 25th image I shot.

The images I shot right after I got the PC message were not showing up, and neither were their thumbnails. They didn't show up at normal viewing, either. Still, I figured the images might be salvageable, so I continued to shoot away. Maybe the camera just hiccupped.

Thinking things might be fine, I continued to shoot. All seemed well until I called up the screen to look at the thumbnails. I even tried to delete the blank images, but nothing doing.

When we got home, I connected the camera to the computer to download my images. The ones that showed up were awesome shots of the show, great color and all. The other shots of various areas of Disneyland were nice as well.

I hooked up the camera to its USB connection and the program started. I created a file to store the images. I sat back and let it do its thing.

DING. An error. Camera cannot communicate with computer, reconnect cable and try again. Okay...

I did. It didn't.

While I would love to show you the pictures I took that night, I can't. None of them could be saved no matter what I did. Each time I connected the camera to the computer, I got the same error message. While disappointed, I figured that the images I took were not the most important ones in the world. After all, The Fab Four play Disneyland on a regular basis and we had our Annual Passports. This could be done all over again. In the end, I had to reformat the Compact Flash card, which deleted all the images. Now if this thing screwed up at say, an annual event like the L.A. Auto Show, I might consider killing someone. Which leads to...

Nothing beats the Blue Line, our light rail system which runs from Long Beach and goes connects to the Red and Green Lines. From there, you can go as far as Universal City or LAX. We only took it from the Wardlow Station to the Pico Station, then walked two blocks to the Convention Center for the 2002 Los Angeles International Auto Show.

Normally I would have my trusty 15-year-old Minolta X-370 and at least 10 rolls of 24 exposure film. I live for the auto show and love to take pictures of the concept cars so when they reach production, I can look back at the concept and say, "That's what it looked like at first?" This time would be different. I had the HP 215 and the 32MB card, which would easily hold the images I wanted to take.

After loading the camera with new Walgreen's "Super Heavy Duty" alkaline batteries, I started shooting. I took only one shot and they began to die. Okay then, I'll just load it up with the other 8 I had in the camera bag.

While the changing of batteries was becoming a nuisance, I discovered one more thing: the lens was not wide enough. If I had a wide angle zoom, I could have stood a few feet away from any vehicle and not worry about losing any of it. To get the entire car in the picture with the HP 215, I had to stand at what seemed like 400 feet away. I was stumbling over strollers and waiting for people to walk through (which wasted even more battery power if they took their time). This was not photography, it was applied stupidity.

As the act of taking photos became more cumbersome, I became extremely jealous of a guy standing next to me, with his Minolta X-370, wide angle lens and motor drive. I knew he was going to get great shots, and he wouldn't have to worry about batteries as much.

We walked around the convention center, seeing what was new. When something caught my attention, I took a picture of it - or at least I tried to. Damn if this camera wasn't a headache...

- Turn camera on
- Wait for flash to charge up. To save battery power, turn off flash in options screen, which will, in turn, use up battery power anyway
- Once flash is charged, line up subject in rangefinder or LCD screen
- Hold shutter button halfway down until green light turns on 
- When green light is on, press shutter button down all the way
- Image will appear on screen, which can be deleted if desired 

Now compare that to my Minolta X-370. To save time, I keep the flash and motor drive on most of the time.

- Turn camera on 
- Line up subject in viewfinder 
- Focus on subject 
- Press shutter button 

Yep, lots of fun at the auto show this year.

Once I was down to my last four "fresh" batteries, I kept the shooting to a minimum. Then I kept it to nothing at all, for what happened next pretty much sealed my camera's fate: the same dreaded PC message I got while shooting at Disneyland. This was it, and it happened at the same point: 25 pictures. It was doing the black thumbnail thing, too.

From this point on, the auto show was secondary. My anger was focused on this "digital imaging device" which had officially become a pain. The rest of the auto show, needless to say, was not the same. I didn't even go to the exotic car exhibit. Something must have been wrong with me.

The 2002 Auto Show was now a memory. I would have to reformat the CF card and lose my images once again. Or would I?

Ann had a suggestion. What if I put the CF card (with the auto show images) in her HP Jordana, which she had just gotten for Christmas, and transfer them to the computer that way? Would it work?

Yes, it worked. All images were saved thanks to Ann's quick thinking. Hey, if it happened again, this would be the way to save my images, right?

Are you kidding? Why go through that trouble? This thing was designed for convenience and I don't know about you, but having to take an extra step by using a PDA to download the images is not what would I consider convenient.

Buyer beware, y'all. If you are going to spend the money on a digital camera, go whole hog and buy one that offers an optical zoom, doesn't take AA batteries, and has more functions.

The HP was returned after one month of not-so-convenient shooting. When I got home, I gave my trusty X370 a great big hug and rewarded it by buying 8 rolls of Fuji film.
            
<label> No
<rating>  1.0

</DOC>
<