DOC>
<DOCID> 32682 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Lincoln_Town_Car </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_63678484100 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My grandparents have driven a Lincoln Town Car for the past 20+ years, always buying a new one every three. Coincidentally, their current Town Car arrived a week before I took my driver's test. As the generous people that they are, they gave me their '98 as a sort of "congratulations" present. Needless to say, I was thinking more along the lines of an old Chevy for my first car, but you always take what is given to you, right? Of course you do.

My Signature Series Town Car is diamond white with a light beige two-tone treatment, and has an ivory/light beige two-tone leather interior. My grandparents like their cars loaded, and as such, this one had all the toys - moonroof, traction control, automatic climate control, radio/AC/cruise controls on the steering wheel, etc. In other words, everything. The only missing option is the CD changer.

I picked up the Town Car with only 22,000 miles on it. I was amazed at how smooth and whisper-quiet it drove. So whisper-quiet, in fact, that I put the window down to check and see if the engine was actually running.

The Town Car is a rear-wheel-drive sedan with a body-on-ladder frame construction, as opposed to the unibody construction used by nearly every other passenger car on the road today. The advantages to this kind of construction are reliability and durability. For these reasons, the Town Car's Panther platform-mates, the Ford Crown Victoria and Mercury Grand Marquis, have long been favorites of police, taxi fleets and coachbuilders.

In 1998, the Town Car was radically redesigned, tossing out the old upright, formal styling for a voluptuous, curvaceous shape with an obvious European influence. In my opinion, this is one of the sexier-looking sedans Ford has produced in quite some time. Whether you agree with me or not, no one can dispute that this car definitely makes a statement. One disadvantage to the styling, however, is that it can be troublesome to park especially in tight quarters, as the high beltline and smallish rear window limit visibility.

The '98 Town Car is powered by a 4.6-liter V-8 engine developing 200 horsepower at 4500 rpm. While this may not sound like much for a nearly two-ton car, consider that this same engine develops 265 lb-ft. of torque at 3500 rpm. Still, acceleration is more accurately described as "stately" than "fast". This engine drives the rear wheels, just like Henry Ford intended, through a creamy-smooth four-speed automatic transmission with an overdrive gear for quiet, efficient highway cruising. The EPA rates this car for 17 mpg in the city and 24 mpg on the highway. However, I believe these estimates to be too conservative, as I consistently average 22-24 mpg on a tank of gas in evenly split city and expressway driving. Brakes are four-wheel disc with anti-lock technology, and traction control, should be considered a must for any winter driving, is available.

Handling, for such a large car, is surprisingly athletic. Body roll, for those of you who know what I'm talking about, is very well controlled, and there is very little side-to-side sway around corners, even at moderately high velocities. While the steering is not as surgically precise as, say, a BMW, it still manages to give the driver a decent sense of direction and a surprising degree of road feel. This car's strong suit, however, is cruising down the straight, flat interstate, a task which it relishes, coddling its occupants the entire way.

The best word to describe the interior is, well, huge. I'm talking 42 inches of legroom in the front and 41 in the back. The Town Car advertises seating for six, although it is a car best enjoyed by four adults - the driveshaft tunnel severely limits legroom for the front and rear middle passengers. The front seat is a split bench with a center storage armrest. Obviously, both the driver and passenger enjoy electric seat adjustments, power lumbar support and bun warmers (a wonderful thing on a cold morning). The dash features a neat center stack with controls for the radio on top and the air conditioning and trip computer below. The only glaring omission was an in-dash CD player, but I quickly fixed that with an aftermarket CD receiver. The instrument panel has an analog speedometer, fuel and temperature gauge and two electronic displays on either side which communicate trip information (miles to empty, fuel economy, etc.) and  compass direction. While I would like to see a tachometer, overall the instrumentation is very clear and easily read.

The back seat is equally comfortable, with a folding center armrest and plenty of legroom.

The Town Car, which now has over 35,000 miles on it, is the most reliable car that has sat in our driveway for quite some time. Over the 12,000 miles that I have driven it, I have had no problems requiring dealer attention, and it has started without drama on some of the most frigid, below-zero days we have seen in Central New York, days on which it took me longer to get warmed up than the car. 

I am very proud of my Town Car, and I wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone looking for a roomy, relatively powerful, reliable and luxurious highway cruiser.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<