DOC>
<DOCID> 33114 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Chevrolet_Malibu </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_15045267076 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I considered myself unlucky when I picked up a silver 2000 Chevy Malibu from Enterprise.  In fact, I begged for a Corolla in its place.  See, our rental Maxima had a flat.  They replaced it with a 2000 Sebring Convertible which had an insane electrical system.  So, all that they had for us was a Malibu, and I wasn't happy.

Why?  Let's face it.... It's cheap.  Boring.  And devoid of gadgets.  Plus, I just don't like Chevy's, especially after a leather-lined Sebring and a brand new Maxima.

After manually adjusting my cloth seat, I got ready to pull away.  At first, I noticed how good the air conditioning was (even on a low setting).  Then, I noticed the lack of unnecessary play in the wheel.  Then, I hit the gas.

Wow.

Really, wow.

No, really, wow.  This car was great!

It had power, power, power.  Another reviewer here at Epinions said it better than I could--he didn't time the 0-60 acceleration because there wasn't time--step on the pedal, and, boom, you're at 60 mph.  The steering was tight and responsive--perfect.  Easy to power around town, responsive enough to make stupid maneuvers in traffic doable, and a blast on 2 lane roads.  The ride wasn't as smooth as a luxury car, but it didn't make my butt sore.  The brakes were also up to the task--the car stopped as fast as reasonably necessary (I didn't do anything too aggressive).  Even better, as much as I hate automatic transmissions, it seemed to do a decent job of putting the car in the right gear to go the right speed--it was innocuous, which is about the best that one can ask.

OK, you'll love driving it, but is it okay to sit in?  I already mentioned the great A/C.  The cassette stereo was perfectly adequate for radio--not great, but not horrible.  It had RDS functionality which my wife had to read the owner's manual to figure out (if I cared about RDS, I would have needed to read a little as well).  Cruise control engaged rapidly and crisply.  The controls were standard GM issue--lots of stalks which do lots of things in confusing fashions.  The windshield washer stalk blocked the dashboard-mounted ignition--starting the car usually involved starting the windshield washers (which worked well when needed).

Seating position was great.  The car felt tall, and the position seemed high.  The manual cloth covered seats were adequate, but not something you'd want to live in.  I took the car for a 100 or so mile drive and they were fine.  I'm not sure that I'd want to do a 500 mile day in them, though.

The front of the car was quite roomy--more than enough room for my short-legged 5'5" frame and my wife's beautiful-and-moderately-long-legged 5'4" frame.  The rear looked like it would be fine for kids, and maybe for adults, but we didn't ever try it.  There was a decent quantity of storage space in the cabin--a dual level center console/armrest, cup holders, door bins, and a big glove compartment.

So, what was wrong?  Minor convenience and ergonomic issues....  I already mentioned the stalk blocking the ignition.  In addition, the car had automatic headlights which would turn on at the wrong times and turn off at the wrong time (or not at all).  It would chirp or ding after being shut off for no good reason.  Worst of all, turning the key in the driver's door didn't engage the power locks, and the power locks didn't seem to affect the driver side at all.  Very annoying.  While I'm at it....  If even the cheapest cars can have keyless entry, why not the Malibu?  This shouldn't be an option any more, especially on a car with power windows, locks, and mirrors.

Would I buy one?  No.  The boring looks aren't really the problem (I wouldn't buy a Camry either).  The problem is, you guessed it, GM's record for reliability.  It's fun to drive, and very comfortable for the price, so I'll enjoy renting it again.  (for now, I just picked up a Seville which I like even better.... Epinion to follow!)
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<