DOC>
<DOCID> 33579 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1997_BMW_5_Series </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_118407204484 </URL>
<TEXT>
            The 5 series was discontinued in 1995, with a fully re-engineered 528/540 series car. Since I have owned other BMW cars, I had something to compare it to.

My last BMW was a 1995 325i that was a joy to drive anywhere and surprisingly roomy.

My first step inside the 528i showed me again that a BMW can be deceitfully small outside, but quite roomy inside.

It made the 325 look much smaller once inside. The styling of the interior had changed a lot, including the stereo system, controls, and operation. Cruise control is activated with a button on the dash and controlled on the steering wheel. Stereo is also controlled on the panel or steering wheel. 

My car has the Winter package complete with heated seats and heated steering wheel, traction control, and heated mirrors. All a very nice amenity in cold climates.

Compared to the 3 series, this car is not as fun to toss around corners, nor as close to the road. It gives the feeling of a much larger car, not as sporty as the 3 series. More to the suspension compared with the smaller series as well. Instead of feeling as much a part of the road, you feel higher up and more distant. This does not take away from it's superb handling or driving experience.

The 3 memory seat position is nice, and when shutting the car down, the power steering wheel automatically rises all the way up, allowing easier exit and entry into the car. The power tilt/telescope wheel is also a nice function, making it easy to adjust for longer trips. Another nice function is the weather band on the radio. A push of the button gives weather reports 24/7 with no commercials!

6 CD system is nice, never having jammed as it did frequently on the 325.

The Navigation system is nice, but can be a bit cumbersome to learn, and not something you want to program on the road. It can be very visually distracting.

But nice to have. It has a door to door delivery system that seems pretty precise most times.

2 things I am not so pleased with however. 1 is the cup holders everyone yells about. Incredibly idiotic placement and functionality up front.

2nd is the quality of the stereo system. My older 3 series had a much better system. I was a bit disappointed in the quality of sound at loud settings. Nice at lower settings, but tends to distort. 

The rear seats have a vent control, however, it is NOT functional for heat and cold, as it is NOT part of the Climate Control system. Need to go to a 1998 and higher for that. It is simply a fresh air duct, well meaning BMW safety feature, but a bit misleading.

Power and cruising are second to none, and comfort on long or short trips is always there. Not to mention looks.

Always a compliment on the car from someone. To date, maintenance has been few and not nearly as expensive as an Audi or Volvo, both cars that seem to be far more expensive and more frequent in repair than any BMW I have owned. 

Shame, since they are also fine riding and handling vehicles, but nothing I have driven to date can compare with a BMW on the road.

Update: My gas mileage runs from about 21 city, and that is spirited driving! On the highway, If I stay between 70-85 MPH I get about 28 MPG on a straight shot. Going 60 I have reached 32 MPH. The horsepower on this 2.8 engine is around 190, but with BMW, it is the torque that matters just as much. The feel of this car pulling you, coupled with a subtle but noticeable growl makes the driving experience fun. Though I would not classify it as a true sports car, the straight take off from 0-60 is nothing to scoff at. And on hills, you will never notice a lagging, [passing other vehicles as they were standing still heading upward. 

The traction control system also allows a better stick to the road on hills when it rains or snows, making the rear wheel drive system almost unnoticeable. This car feels as straight and solid at 155 MPH as it does at 50. The factory has an electronic limiter to decrease speed when it hits about 130 MPH, but this can be remedied through the ECU to allow it full throttle and speed. I do not suggest this unless you put the proper rated tires on the care however, going that speed with tires rated at 135 can cause serious injury.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<