DOC>
<DOCID> 33991 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Oldsmobile_Bravada </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_84943605380 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Oldsmobile Bravada, 2002

Only for the Brave.

Only a few days after the introduction of the Oldsmobile Bravada, 2002 to consumers, General Motors has announced that it would eliminate Oldsmobile from its from line up. Oldsmobile has been selling cars and vans for 103 years, at one time some of its models were top selling products in America. Times are changing and corporation must make decisions that at time may not please all consumers, this must one for sure.

I titled my review Only for the Brave, and the reason is, once you know a brand name will disappear you must be brave to purchase that product. There is no doubt in my mind that the folks a GM will service the Olds they sell, but what about parts and resale value?

PRODUCT DESCRIPTION

The Bravada 2002 comes only in one trim, but consumers can select from either a SmartTrack 
All-wheel-drive Bravada or 2- wheels drive model.

The 2002 Bravada is powered by a Vortec 4200, 4-valve I-6 motor and along with a brand new exterior styling it also has a new chassis deign. I guess the people at Olds say, if you are going to make an exit, it may as well be a good one.    

The Bravada I drove was a 5-seater, Oldsmobile had announce that for later in the year they were going to offer a longer version 7-seater version, I wonder if we will ever them in the showroom.

 The Bravada has a wheelbase of 113 inches and it measures 191.8 inches in length, 72 inches wide and 69.6 inches in height.

The Bravada 2002, comes fully equipped with a very long list of both comfort and safety feature.

The American base price for the Bravada is $31,635.00 and the Canadian base price is $46,455.00. Another irony with this vehicle is that it was making its entry on the Canadian market.

THE INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR

The interior:

The inside of the Bravada is spectacular, the leather seats are soft and will give you a feeling of sitting in a luxury European automobile, the instrument panel is well organized and the interior is decorated with lots of wood trim, which gives the inside cabin a very rich look.

Once behind the steering wheel the driver can adjust the seat using a system that offer 8-way adjustment for the seat itself, 4-way lumbar, adjustment and 4-way head restraint. With this system you are certain to find a proper position in which you will be comfortable.

The Bravada is full of storage compartment for your belongings, and the lighting in the interior is fantastic. The basic sound system in the Bravada is a radio/CD combination but if you want the max you can select the optional radio/CD/cassette or radio with 6-disc in dash CD changer.

All Bravada are equipped with the OnStar communication system which includes GPS navigation, hands free cell phone, and the first year free of service for reporting crash and theft of your new pride and joy.

The Bravada comes equipped with a dual climate control system, which alloys a separate setting for the diver and for the passengers.

Over all this the Bravada I drove had the following standard feature: power windows, power locks, power mirrors, tilt steering, cruise control, power sunroof, luggage rack, rear window defroster and alloy wheels.
For space in the Bravada, while in the front you will be spoiled with ample headroom and 44.6 inches in legroom. As for the rear the headroom is constant with the front but the legroom will drop to 37.1 inches only.

The exterior:

When looking at the front of a Bravada you can immediately see that it has Oldsmobile styling, the front grill of the Olds line has always been very distinctive and the is no different.

As much as did not like the light assembly on the Cadillac Escalade, as much as I like the assembly on this SUV. It gives class and excellent lighting performance. 

Another point I like is the rear bumper, it is also a step, which can be used to help load or unload heavier cargo.

I would have like to see a touch of chrome on this fine vehicle, the panel fit tight together, the paint job is superior and the alloy wheels have a very classy 6-spoke design.

The cargo space on the Bravada is at 83 cubic feet.  

     
TECHNICAL INFORMATION

The Bravada I drove had under the hood:

Engine: A Vortec 4.2 I-6 motor, which develops 270 horsepower at 6,000 RPM.
Transmission: A 4-speed automatic all-wheel-drive transmission.
Brakes: 4-wheel disc brakes with ABS.
Tires: 225/60R17
Safety: Dual front airbags,
            Side airbags.
           Child safety locks.
           Keyless remote entry.
           GPS navigation system.
           Crash and theft reporting service. (Free for the first year)

PERSONAL EXPERIENCE

My same comment goes for the Bravada as for the Escalade, to drive one of these fine vehicle off road is a shame, both are very luxurious and comfortable SUV&#145s.

On the highway the Bravada will give you a very smooth car like ride, it is equipped with a load leveling suspension that adjust to the weight in the vehicle and keeps it level and smooth riding.

As for city driving the same caution, take care while backing up if you are not use to SUV&#146s and remember they are wider and longer than most cars.   

 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<