DOC>
<DOCID> 34500 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Pontiac_Sunfire </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_118277574276 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my little red 1999 Pontiac Sunfire a few years ago.   I bought it used with about 36,000 miles on it.  I bought it because I thought that it was cute and I loved the payments at only $156 a month.

This car has been very reliable for me.  I have never had any engine problems and I now have 89,000 miles on it.  I have not intentions on selling or trading. I will ride her till she dies. 

I want to note that I do not have any experience with the quality of the warranty because I have not had any problems to have used my warranty.

Here are my complaints:

My Sunfire is an automatic.  I do have some very minor problems with the car.  My biggest complaint is that the paint seems to be very thin.  I have had major problems with the clear seal on the top of the roof.  It has all worn away and I will soon need to replace it.  I just think that they could have done a better job.  The paint seems a bit thin.  It needs a better quality seal.

I live in Florida and I don't have to deal with the snow or wearing and tearing of the salt that they use to put on the roads in the winter.  We do have a lot of love-bugs and this seems to help damage the paint further.

I don't like the fact that under the console has a place where you can throw change or whatever,  beyond that little compartment is a gap.  I have lost alot of items because it has fell through this gap.  I can't understand why they did not cover this hole up?  It gets a bit annoying and I am not able to retrieve the items that fall behind this compartment.

I am use to a larger car, so the trunk space seemed a bit limited to me, however I feel the the limited space was worth the ride in the back seats of this car.

Things I love about the car:

As I mentioned, I feel that the rear seats are quiet roomy. I have an elderly grandmother that prefers to ride in the back seat.  She feels that it is easy for her to enter and exit.  She prefers to ride in my Sunfire rather than any other vehicle that our family has. She has arthritis and likes the way that the car drives and feels when she sits in my seats.

My kids like the fact that there are built in drink holders and they have held up to the abuse of my six and twelve year old.

I like the fact that I have a middle compartment in the front enough to hold my most favorite cd's and still enough room for my kids favorites as well.

I love the way the car rides and it seems to be very modest on gas compared to others.  It does not seem to be a "gas guzzler."

My interior is gray and the kids have spilled all sorts of things in the car.  I love the interior because for $30 once a year I can go and take it to a shop and get it shampooed and it looks brand new.

I love the fact that it has a rear defogger and to this day it works beautiful.

I have driven this car several thousand miles and have never had any major problems with the car.  I have never had any engine problems, cracked heads, or any such complaints people have when they have put a lot of miles on their cars.

My cruise control stopped working, but I don't consider that to be a huge deal.

My kids love the way the car looks and are not embarrassed to ride around with mom.  They think it looks cool.  I love the sporty type of feel it has, especially for the price.  I feel I got a great deal on this car.  

About the ride:

I love the way this car rides.  When we take long drives on the interstate I feel very confident.  When I feel the need for a little speed, this car will accelerate with ease.  This car will fly down the interstate and can manage going around 80mph with ease.  I have not experienced any shaking.

On long drives I find the sunfire to drive with a medium comfort level.  I find it to be comfortable for the price that I have paid for this car. I like the comfort of knowing I am several hundred miles away when I am driving in my Sunfire.  I really trust this car and would take it anywhere even though I have already put a lot of miles on it.

My Sunfire drives with ease and is very quiet.  It really is very fun to drive.  I love the shape of the car and it has a very sporty look to it.  I love the Red color and I love the attention I receive with this car.

We have a lot of curvy back roads in my area of the country.  I try not to speed, but when I am in a hurry I am able to hug around the curves with confidence.  I can stop very smoothly if need be.  

One of the best features for me a Mother of two, is the locks in the rear.  I can place the safety lock which is on the door when you open the car.  There is a latch for safety.  I can feel comfort knowing that when my kids are in the back arguing that they can not get the doors open and fall out.  

Even though I purchased it used I only pay $156 a month for a car that was practically new when I bought it. That is a great payment and the warranty was still into affect.

When my Sunfire dies, I have all intentions on buying another.  I love Pontiac vehicles and I believe this is a name that I can trust.



            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<