DOC>
<DOCID> 34673 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Pontiac_Firebird </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_43431136900 </URL>
<TEXT>
            2002, this is the last year of the Pontiac Firebird and Chevy Camaro. Other then the Chevy Corvette and the Firebird's nemesis the Ford Mustang no other muscle cars remain. This has been due a drop in sales and Mustang out sells them. The Mustang is a cheaper car and does not offer the same looks and the performance of the Firebird. Most young drivers cannot afford the Firebird and have less expensive imports. Of course many of the imports cannot have the same performance in the stock factory form as the Pontiac Firebird. So for performance you pay a little more cash and get many more options with the Firebird.

I just bought the 2002 WS6 Pontiac Trans Am. This car has the Ram Air forced air induction system. This gives the car a boost in horsepower from 310 with the Trans Am to 325 with the Ram Air option. The hood for the Ram Air gives a unique look seen on no other car. The two added hood scoops add a real mean street look. Speaking of all the scoops on the car they are not only cosmetic but also really work to vent the engine and brake heat. Also the WS6 Trans Am adds extra goodies like the chrome mag wheels. The engine is the same one used in the Chevy Corvette and is refined and reliable. The power of the engine is all you would ever need. You may need a good radar detector if you like it that fast. Of course if you expect to save money on gas don&#146t look at this car. The Trans Am sucks down more gas then a drunken sailor on shore leave. The dealer said only to gas up with premium fuel so there goes to cost savings with cheap gas. A bad thing about the Firebird is that the gas cap does not lock. I wanted this feature since I do not want jealous people to slip a Mickey into the tank just for kicks. I bought the car with T-Tops and it has all the comforts of the regular Trans Am. Because of the unique styling and look of the WS6 Trans Am it does make heads turn. There are not too many of them out there to begin with. 

As for the quality of the car it is finely built and is no comparison to the Firebird/ Trans Am of the 1980's. There is no body flex, rattles, squeaks or other unknown noises. The car has the right amount of stiffness and the sports suspension takes to the curves well. The additional Traction Control option should be a must on this car. Folks, this is a rear wheel car and is slippery when wet. The Traction Control will help with this problem. I also think the 6-speed option on the Firebird is the way to go. I think its a fun experience and also gives me more control of the vehicle. Since I enjoy manual I have spent extra on the Hurst short throw option. It&#146s a better 6 speed that gives a tighter feel when rowing gears. One final thing about the manual transmission in this car. The dreaded skip shift function. A lot of people who have either a late model Corvette, Camaro or Firebird know what I am talking about. To me it&#146s only a slight annoyance but to some it&#146s a real pain. What happens is when you start in 1st gear if you do not shift late enough the computer will force the driver to shift into 4th gear. So basically you need to really take off in 1st gear to have the computer allow you to shift into 2nd gear. This was done by GM to avoid making you spend more money on the car. I think this is the so-called "Gas Guzzler Tax&#148. It can be annoying but it does not really do anything negative with the performance of the car. You just need to pay more attention to driving with the function. I look it this way, if it saves me money on gas and taxes its not such a bad thing. If it really bothers you I understand that it can be disabled. Some web sites offer this remedy. Make sure you check with your dealer first before having this feature bypassed. You may not want to void that warranty. The ABS brakes are a large and are a Bosch system. A Koni shock system and a larger sway bar are present for the sports suspension. The tires are large 17 inch Goodyear F1's. If you want to do burn outs then be prepared to ruin expensive rear tires. The leather interior gives it a luxury feel and the front seats are comfortable. The Trans Am has power everything inside. The radio controls on the steering wheel are an added bonus. The stereo&#146s 500 watt, 10 speaker Monsoon system is a real gem and has enough power to blast you into another universe. The rear bucket seats are good for short trips. The back seats become uncomfortable for those over six feet tall. There is good visibility at the windshield but rear view in the coupe is somewhat limited. I think this is due to the high rear and large spoiler. The best thing to do is use those side mirrors. Also be aware that the car is long in the front end. Make the turns cautiously around blind curves, you don&#146t want to get a broadside by oncoming traffic. The T-Tops are very nice addition. It&#146s like getting a convertible for the same price as a hard top. This option is good for many reasons. The first reason is a convertible is not the best option is when you park on the street in an urban environment. One day you may find the car ragtop slashed in a possible theft attempt. With the hard T-Tops being made out of a hard glass/ Plexiglas someone would need to smash it and probably set off the alarm in the progress. This does not make the car a good crime target. The wear of the motor on the rag top and top itself from being exposed to the outdoor elements may mean costly future replacements. The T-bar that runs through the center will add extra rigidity and safety to the car in turns, which you may not have in a convertible. The T-Tops have a storage center in the trunk area, here the left and right glass panels can be placed and locked down. While in place on the rooftop and in the trunk storage both panels can be locked into place with the trunk key to prevent theft. The T-Top panels always let light into the car even in adverse weather just like a Moon Roof. If you want to block the sun from coming into the car and boiling the leather seats, the Trans Am comes with two plastic inserts. Just add them into the panels and it blocks the sun. The T-Tops are standard on the Trans Am Model and inexpensive option on the low end Firebird. The convertible adds another 3-4 grand on top of your price. Well enough about the T-Tops if this does not convince you then get the rag top. Sometimes people just love the wind and sun on them in the warm weather. It brings back days of bygone. Lets move onto the hidden headlights. First I need to say that not many cars have the hidden headlight look anymore. I think it was because of the unreliability of the early models on the 3 Gen 1980's Firebirds and the older vettes. How many times have I passed one of these on the road and saw it winking at me? :) Now it appears that only high-end sports cars have these lights. I also think they are more expensive to produce for GM. An electric motor is needed to power each light with a back up hand crank included. Eliminate this saves cost and repair but may not be as pleasing to look at either. I am glad we have this unique look on the Firebird. If you don&#146t like that get a Chevy Camaro. At night when the lights come on and the headlights snap up into position it gives plenty of light to drive by. The added fog lights on the distinctive Trans Am front are great even for just evening running lights. The rear break lights have the unique hexagon pattern over the red reflectors. This exterior lighting adds to the menacing look. The interior lighting is a deep red. There are lights all around the interior. It even has small red LED lights near the interior door handles. It really is cool to see the car light up at night. 

I have also looked into the theft rate for this vehicle nation wide. Its pretty low compared to ten years ago when the Trans Am was all the rage in stolen cars. I think this is partially due to the low demand from the chop shops. The rage rights now are the rice rocket imports that many of the younger generation enjoy. Also the car includes the PASSKEY II Anti Theft System and audible alarm system. The PASSKEY II incorporates a small resistor embedded into the key. When the correct key is inserted into the ignition the car&#146s computer matches the code from the resistor. When they match the car will allow you to start the engine. If someone uses a key without the proper resistor chip the car will not except it and shut down the fuel pump for at least 10 minutes until the right key is used. Also the audible alarm system uses a detector located in the hatch area of the car. If the car receives a heavy shock/ hit it will set off the alarm/ horn. The car will sound for 10 minutes. A small light on the dashboard will start to flash when the car is locked and turned off. There are plenty of different options on how to set up the alarm system to your personal convenience. Of course as an owner you get two sets of keys with alarm/ door unlock/ hatch unlock fobs complements of GM. GM also has a strict policy about making duplicates of the keys if needed. Pretty much you need the car registration and the code for them to even process a claim. The Monsoon Radio comes with a Theft lock system. This system needs to be activated with a private code by the driver only once. Once activated if the radio is ever taken away from the power source, i.e. battery, it will not work unless a private code is entered. Once the Theft lock feature is activated whenever the car is turned off a small light located on the radio will start to flash to indicate the radio is protected.

I have been driving for a while now and I notice that on the road every one takes a notice to the Ram Air Trans Am. Many drivers will get out of your way when you pass, even when you are driving at a normal traffic speed. This car is tempting to drive faster. I say remember this about speeding. If you want to go fast your taking chances with increasing your insurance premiums. Also the price of tickets is getting higher. It is possible when driving hard you wear out the car that much more. Since this car will be the final flight for the Firebird in the F-body form it will be a classic. Ok enough motherly advise.

I guess I have a biased opinion of this classic car. I only have this car for pleasure driving. Its really a good deal, Pontiac and GM have offered a lot of car for a good price. The next thing up in terms of price and performance is the 45,000 plus Corvette. If you want to get this car for daily driving or as a family car look elsewhere. There is not much trunk room or family room for that matter. I can only say that when you turn that key and hear the engine roar with that deep muscle car sound, please by all means drop the hammer&#133you'll know why you bought it.

P.S. I was driving the TA with the tops off the other day and some people were having a car show. A lot of sports cars were there including many Vettes. But I was the one having people drive by and video tape the car. I am the only one in my area with a ram air T/A. I admit I just drove a Vette Z06 and they are pretty fast and nimble but it seems everyone has this type of car. I wanted something different and I still love every drive with this car :)

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<