DOC>
<DOCID> 34735 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1997_Volkswagen_Passat </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_46810173060 </URL>
<TEXT>
            In November, 2000 I purchased a Satin Silver 1997 Volkswagen Passat, quite like the one pictured above; only difference being that my car is equipped with the TDI (Turbocharged Direct Injection) Diesel engine.  This model is particularly rare as it was available for only the 1996 and 1997 model years in North America, during which less than 10,000 were shipped.

When I first bought my car, it had about 91k kilometers, or 56k miles.  While shopping for a car I also looked at Audi A4 1.8T Quattros, Audi S6 Quattros, VW Jettas and Passats of similar vintage or newer.  I almost signed the papers on a silver `97 A4 1.8T but decided that I needed to "sleep on it," and on the very next day I went to another dealership (where I had previously worked) to make one last look.  Fate intervened when I was shown a newly-arrived Passat TDI and the rest became history.

Now I am an automotive engineer, always a VW nut and more recently a rabid Diesel freak so maybe this review might be a tad biased, but I invite you to bear with me.  I came to appreciate the benefits of the TDI engine long before owning this Passat: excellent fuel economy and peppy-ness -- especially at the low-end of the rpm range -- that belies it's rather humble 90 horsepower figure.

Let me categorically state that, along with some inexpensive "upgrades," the VW Passat TDI has far surpassed EVERY expectation I have ever had in a car in every metric.  On more than one occasion, I have PERSONALLY driven this car over 920 miles on a single 18.5 gallon tank of fuel, equating to nearly 50 miles per gallon.  Others have done MUCH BETTER!  This, folks, is achieved in a mid-sized car in the same class as a Toyota Camry and Ford Taurus, and this is achieved without driving like we're in the midst of the OPEC oil embargo!!

With a three-hundred dollar "chip," the tiny and frugal 1.9 litre turbo-diesel engine generates enough power off the line and while passing to drop-jaw owners of seemingly much more powerful V6s and turbocharged 4-bangers, all while retaining the economy and driveability of the unmodified car, if not enhancing over it.

Notwithstanding any of the upgrades I have personally done to my car, the VW Passat is built solidly and it shows in  after some years, when the body remains corrosion-free and the paint has a shine that shames most other cars half its age.  The steering is responsive and well weighted.  Braking action is very good; short, sure and not "twitchy" nor "grabby" like some cars.  Handling is as expected from a German-engineered automobile designed for life on the Autobahn -- precise and predictable; firm yet not too harsh for most tastes.  The seats feel on the firm side in true Teutonic fashion, but are wonderfully supportive and comfortable even on long drives.  And the spaciousness -- WOW!! -- the cabin and trunk are sights to behold!

For all the PROS there are some CONS.  To some tastes, the interior appointments are a bit bland and austere.  I don't mind the black trim and dark grey seats myself... gives a bit of a sporting ambiance.  A BIG negative: there is NO GLOVEBOX.  Instead, a massive passenger-side airbag resides in it's place... reassuring I suppose for the passenger, and certainly appreciated in the event of a serious accident.

It would have been nice to have some optional equipment as standard, things we have come to take for granted in a high-end European automobile like ABS and a sunroof .  However, this is a bit of a blessing in disguise... electrical and electronic components in this type of car are not its strongest suit.  There are handfuls of reports of ABS giving the fritz(don't worry, your safely is NOT compromised); sunroof mechanisms jamming; power windows not working; and instrument clusters giving up the ghost.  I never said these cars are perfect and flawless; however I must digress NONE of these failures have happened to me (knock on wood).  If you fore-arm yourself with what can and does go wrong with this car, like any other, you WILL spare yourself a lot of grief and surprises, not to mention time and money.

I recently celebrated (yes, celebrated) my one year anniversary with this car, and in that year had driven almost 47k kilometers (29k miles), almost all of it trouble free.  The only money I have spent in this time have been on "upgrades" and routine maintenance.

And another thing:  please dispel once and for all the notion that Diesels are pollutive, noisy, smelly, pokey, slow, and no fun to drive.  They are NONE of these things.  If I could include a test drive for everyone reading this review, I probably would do it ;-)  That's how much I love my car and rave about it.

More information about the VW Passat in general and TDIs in particular can be found in an owner-enthusiast forum on the internet: http://forums.tdiclub.com

To conclude this, I thought I would share these "upgrades" to my car to which I keep aluding; what I have done so far, and what is planned for the future.  If you have any questions, I invite your feedback by going to the above forum and looking me up... my name is "tdimeister."

Upsolute "performance chip", aftermarket free-flowing air filter, upgraded component sound system with Kenwood cassette deck and CD changer, 17" "gunmetal grey" Axis Se7en alloy wheels with 215/40-17 tires, Neuspeed Sport lowering springs, Bilstein HD shock absorbers, Dieselgeek short shift kit, and more.

For the future: upgraded European-spec high-output fuel injectors, Neuspeed rear sway bar and front upper strut tower brace, Recaro sport front seats, fog lights, European-spec headlights with HID, aftermarket front and rear spoilers, upgraded Porsche brakes, upgraded turbocharger, and much too many more to list.

Enjoy shopping for and owning a VW Passat TDI.  In my opinion, there is currently no other car like it.  Pictures of my car to follow soon.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<