DOC>
<DOCID> 34945 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Pontiac_Grand_Prix </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_26838666884 </URL>
<TEXT>
            After months of searching on dozens of lots around Phoenix, I finally purchased a "new to me" Grand Prix SE.  This is my second GP, the first one being a used model as well.  Actually, the 2000 model replaces the 1991 for me, but the old gal is going to my daughter.

As for the car, let me tell you why I bought it, why I love Grand Prix and what I expect from this vehicle over the next 5 years.

I wanted to stay under $20,000 and as close as possible to $15,000.  So I drove several different type of cars in that price range: small 4 cylinder American, Japanese, German, and Korean ones; mid-size 6 cylinder American and Japanese ones; and a couple of 8 cylinder American monsters. I didn't bother with the high end Euro cars because I knew my budget wouldn't afford a decent one.  

I quickly ruled out the 4 and 8 cylinder vehicles. I want the power of a 6 and don't need the gas burning of an 8. The only 6 cylinder engine that I feel comfortable buying is GM's - either the 3.1 or the 3.8 that they equip most of their mid-size cars with.  Both of these engines are peppy, reasonably fuel efficient, and have good reliability records.  The car I purchased has the 3.8 - vrrrooommm!  I love it!  It cruises along the highway effortlessly.  Passing is no problem - this baby knows exactly when to find that lower gear and punch it up a notch.  Pontiac has an even better engine in the 3.8 SSE, but that critter requires super premium fuel and also will jack the cost of your insurance through the roof if you happen to have a male teen in your household (as I do).

Gas mileage is pretty reasonable at 20 mph around town and 30 or so on the road - about the same as my older model. And the standard 3.8 survives just fine on regular unleaded.

The second most important reason for buying a Grand Prix is road handling. There is absolutely no other mid-priced car on the market that grabs the road and refuses to let go as the Grand Prix does.  Couple their wide track stance with the traction assist and you've got a car that corners like it is on rails.  My old Grand Prix was a sweet ride, but the new one is a hundred times more maneuverable.  I'm in love.  

And then there is comfort. The Grand Prix has a nicely shaped driver's seat that grips this old girl's butt like a pair of stretch pants. It is snug and cozy - not too tight and definitely not too loose.  With the power seat option, I can move into the most comfortable driving position for me whether I'm sitting tall or slouching like mother warned me not to.  One thing I didn't get is the optional lumbar control, a feature I prefer.  Oh well - not quite perfect, hey?

The passenger seat is comfy, too, as is the roomy back seat.  Equipped with some safety features in mind for babies to teens, the Grand Prix is a perfect family car for 2 adults and 2 or 3 kiddies. The seat belts even come equipped with shoulder harness adjusters. 

The fold down drink holder and snack tray on the rear center armrest is a very nice feature.  If I ever have someone in the back seat, I'll ask them how convenient it is.

My car is equipped with a wonderful security package which includes keyless entry, a content anti-theft alarm, a security key which prevents the engine from starting except with the master key, and courtesy lamps that light up before entering the vehicle and stay lit for a sufficient time after entering and leaving the car. As a woman who often drives alone, these extra features provide a sense of security for me - especially the lights that come on before I enter the car.  Nice touch, Pontiac!

Now for the bonus items - I've got radio controls on the steering wheel to help me keep my eyes on the road.  The A/C is the basic model but works much better than some of the fancier ones I saw on test drives. This thing freezes me into contentment, even in today's 108 degree weather. The stereo is premium sound with speakers strategically planted throughout the car.  The antenna is built in to the rear window which will ensure I don't lose that at the car wash.  The rear spoiler adds a sassy touch to the car's appearance.  The Goodyear Eagle tires are a perfect match for this road muncher.  The remote trunk control in the glove box is another nice comfort feature.  The trunk is also operated by the keyless remote.  Power door locks that are programmed to the ignition and gear shifter spoil me even more, as do the power windows. And for the record the back windows go all the way down, as they should.  For the ladies there are flip down makeup mirrors (non-lighted) behind the visors.

For pure laziness and convenience the Grand Prix is equipped with an overhead console. It includes a covered compartment for a small thing (pager?), two courtesy reading lamps, a bin for the sunglasses, and a neat little garage door opener cubbie.  

On the lower center console you'll find a big bin for holding CD's, tissues, coins and such , two okay cup holders, the leather wrapped gear shifter, a rubber lined bin for something (cell phone??), ashtray and lighter, auxiliary power jack, and a cutsie hook for hanging a litter bag from.

To keep my future grandchildren safe, the rear doors come with a child safety lock which is controlled with Grandma's keys, not a little switch in the door alone. (My kids figured out those switches by age 3.)

I failed to mention the looks of this car. It is gorgeous.  From the tailored head lamps, to the pleated tail lights, the Grand Prix is dressed out with curves, lines, and details that make it stand out in the parking lot. The sideview mirrors are especially stylish anchored on two arms and slightly set out from the car. The color matched body side molding is a nice touch, as are the real fog lamps tucked under the grille, really low to the road where they can do some good on a cold wet night.  I am not too crazy about the grille, however, because it looks odd set onto the front of the graceful hood.  Sure, it says "Pontiac" but it seems to say it with a sneer.  I'd be happier if the grille were chrome instead of black.

I bought another Grand Prix primarily because I love my old one. She is known around this house as "Ole Reliable" and the only car I trust to take my kids out at night. With more than 185,000 miles on her odometer, we've invested very little repair dollars in the older Grand Prix and I expect the same results from this one.  Though I'd like to be able to get into a replacement car in 5 years instead of 10, if I do have to wait, I wanted to idle in something I'd still like in 2011.

I do have one complaint: that stupid little tire in the trunk.  Come on, Pontiac, let's not make me put an embarrassing little donut on my car in the event of a flat. Let's figure out a way to stow a decent tire in the trunk.  Is that really so much to ask?

Finally, we've got to talk about price.  For all of this luxury, convenience, style, reliability, power and dinky little spare i paid only $15,000.  Who can beat that?
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<