DOC>
<DOCID> 35316 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1996_5_Mazda_Pickup_2WD </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_70415453828 </URL>
<TEXT>
            (Updated on Feb 20, 2003, with snow handling information.)

I recently bought a 1996 Mazda B3000 pickup with extended cab, four wheel drive and five-speed standard transmission. The truck had about 47,000 miles when I bought it for $8,200.

It is just the prettiest little pickup. It is a light blue color and it just looks like a little gem. The interior is fairly basic; just a rubber mat on the floor instead of carpet and no fancy accessories like power windows, locks or seats. This is exactly how I wanted the truck to be and I'm very glad that I was able to find a low-mileage example. The one thing I wish the truck has was auto-locking front hubs -- it has the old get-out-and-turn-the-knob locks for the front wheels... sigh.

The 3.0 liter six-cylinder engine starts quickly and runs smoothly. It seems to idle a little fast (nearly 1,000 RPM) according to the in-dash tachometer, but it is smooth and quiet. The five-speed stick shifts well and gives you good tactile feedback about which gear you are in.

Driving is pleasantly smooth and quiet. The Mazda has a fairly small turning radius, which makes turning around and parking easier. The feel of the controls (steering effort, switches, levers, pedals, etc.) is just about right... the ergonomics are very good.

The 60/40 cloth-covered split-bench seat is comfortable. There is a console/armrest attached to the drivers seat that is convenient, however there are no cupholders in sight. Two tiny pull-down jumpseats are in the rear of the extended cab, best suited to characters from a Tolkien novel.

So the Mazda B3000 looks good, feels good and runs smooth... That's the good part. The bad part is that the 3.0 liter engine just does not have enough power for the higher gears. Part of this could be the gearing: The engine is turning a slow 2,400 RPM at 60 MPH. Perhaps what the truck really needs is different rear-end gearing that would raise the cruising RPM to 2,700 at 60 MPH. 

Power is acceptable for acceleration from a stop, as long as you keep it in gear long enough to get the engine into its power band. But you will have to shift down from fifth to fourth at 55 MPH when encountering even a modest hill. I was expecting the decently sized six-cylinder to have more power than this.

Mileage is about 18-20 MPG, not too bad. The brakes are first-rate, with good stopping power and feel. The truck has a well thought out intermittent wiper system, much better than on my other vehicles.

The Mazda's air conditioning system is excellent, perhaps the best I have had in any vehicle.

I use the four-wheel drive to climb a steep, bumpy dirt road to my home and it works perfectly. I would never take such a nice, pretty vehicle off the road for the "pleasure" of it, so I can't comment on its kidney-busting rock-climbing ability.

General handling is excellent, for a truck. I looked underneath and saw that the Mazda has a rear anti-sway bar, so perhaps my truck has a special handling package.

In February 2003, we got creamed with a massive snow storm in the Washington, DC area. Although the main roads were plowed fairly well, the streets in my development were pretty much left to melt... meaning that they turned into slush- and ice-filled grooves that toss vehicles around and laugh at the feeble attempts of two-wheel drive vehicles to traverse them. My four-wheel drive Mazda has really been excellent on this stuff, getting me back and forth to work with very little drama. The truck's high stance also helps me see over the apartment-sized piles of snow that decorate the corners of each intersection.

I like doing my own service work. One of the first things I did was change the spark plugs and I found it to be quite a knuckle-bashing and cursing exercise. The fuel filter is underneath the truck near the gas tank, so that means you will have to get dirty and spill gas on yourself when you replace it. (I have yet to meet a woman who enjoys the special scent of "eau de petrol" on a dirty man!) The air filter is easily replaced and changing the oil and oil filter is the usual "clean above/messy below" procedure. Other fluids are easy to check and top up.

As others have noted, Mazda B-series and Ford Ranger pickups are built in the same factory and differ only cosmetically.

My Mazda B3000 was a good buy for $8,200 and it has just the usual kind of quirks and wish-list items that you have for any vehicle. The biggest item on the wish list is more power. A performance equipment Web site listed a $250 exhaust system for this vehicle that is claimed to raise horsepower and torque by 10-15 percent. If it provides an increase of 10 percent, it will be more than worth it.

The bottom line for me is that the 1996 Mazda B3000 looks great but needs more power.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<