DOC>
<DOCID> 35373 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1992_Acura_Integra_Hatchback </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-2CE2-86E560-38627A06-bd1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            For starters, I'd like to issue a warning.

THIS REVIEW IS NOT FOR THE FAINT OF HEART, AND NEITHER IS THIS CAR!

When I turned thirteen (1991) I was was introduced to the Integra by a friend's aunt.  It was Black, it was fast, and it looked good.  I could bore you with the story of how I came to own my own, but I'll be nice and stick with the basics.  When I graduated from High School in 1997, I got a 1992 Acura Integra GS Coupe.  It had almost 70K miles on the clock, but looked beautiful.  It has every factory option, except an automatic transmission (or the GS-R engine).  I have since added a few minor enhancements (CD, Bra, 15" wheels... simple stuff).  This car was, and still is, amazing.

From a distance, this car looks good.  In my opinion, it looks better than the '94-present models.  It is black, with black leather inside, the rear spoiler, and alloy wheels.  The first impression to the driver when entering the second generation Integra is "Focus".  Every control and display is canted toward the driver, and every switch is within a finger's reach.  The instruments are arranged nicely in front of you, and regardless of steering wheel tilt, they are always visible.  The seats in this car are sinfully comfortable (especially the GS/GS-R seats with adjustable side bolsters and lumbar support), and the interior fit and finish would be appropriate for a European luxury car.

The drivetrain is next on the list of blessings.  Even at 110,000 miles, it still runs hard and shifts smooth.  There has been some power lost over the past 30,000 miles, and while it is a bummer, it is to be expected of a car driven this hard.  I also count myself as lucky to have a GS, this is because the lesser models have a different suspension tuning (i think).  My car will handle a 4-wheel lift-off (don't ask) without bottoming out, yet still remain completely civilized.  The steering is confident well beyond the physical limitations of this vehicle, I have achieved speeds in excess of 120mph and never flinched.  The brakes are amazing, and the ABS is on par with the systems on most 1999 and 2000 models.  I only have two gripes with this car, first is that the stock wheels and tires are limiting (195/60 HR14) and second is the cost of maintenance.  The first issue can be solved easily.  A new set of 15" or 16" wheels and tires makes it into a Corvette-killer in the turns (the stock wheels/tires will accommodate 65-70mph constant speeds on "25mph" off-ramps).  My second gripe comes with the territory.  These cars are made in Japan and shipped here, they are NOT gussied-up Civics, regardless of what anyone tells you, they share NO parts (except maybe some screws and the radio).

Before I finish up, I'd also like to address the 94-2000 model cars.  My wife drives a '96 LS with 45K on it.  WOW, talk about straight line speed, the list of cars she has outrun includes several pre-93 Camaros (Z28, RS, and IROC), my brother's modified 1968 Mustang GT (it catches her at about 60mph), Avengers, Eclipses, Probes, and even a 5.0 Mustang!!  My problem with her car is the suspension, it is far softer and less precise than mine, and she can't approach the cornering prowess of my '92.  The interior in this generation is also a step backward, the fit-and-finish is equal to the earlier cars, but the design suffers, in both appearance and functionality.  This car will easily top 130 when pushed.

For any generation of Integra ('86-'89, '90-'93, '94-2000) you are guaranteed four things, a relatively low sticker price (price it against a Celica and you'll see what I mean), segment dominating performance in all categories, the bulletproof reliability of anything Honda, and timeless good looks.

One last thing, Honda (Acura) keeps weight and cost down by using very little sound-proofing material, so you tend to hear the road imperfections more than you feel them.  I like it because I feel more connected that way.  The back seats also get progressively smaller as the car gets newer (the '94-up models' are not fit for adults, at all).  I would not recommend this car for anyone under 21 (insurance) or over 50 (low stance makes ingress/egress difficult for some).  Other than that, this car is perfect for anyone needing fun (and I mean FUN) transportation is convenient package.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<