DOC>
<DOCID> 36293 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Infiniti_G35 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_69383589508 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I recently test drove the G-35 along with the Infiniti I-35 when car buying, but ended up buying the I-35. Still, the G-35 was impressive overall.

The rear drive G-35 appeals to my "sportier" side, as I have had several front drivers lately and don't like the torque steer. Our salesman took us on some twisty back roads and put the G-35 through its paces before turning it over to me. I didn't push it as hard as he did, probably because in the back of my mind I was thinking "wreck it and you bought it".....The G has gobs of power and hugs the road as if on rails. Those considering BMW's will likely find the handling to be comparable. The ride was firm and somewhat jiggly, but never harsh.

The G's 260 horses provide ample power, and the Tiptronic transmission will appeal to those wanting to shift a few gears now and then. Powertrain and handling are definitely the selling points of the G.

I love the styling of the front end of the G-35, maybe because it is new and different compared to many other cars on the road. Xenon headlights, however, are a $500 option (standard on I-35). The rear, unfortunately, looks to me like it was stolen from the Chrysler 300M, and is not very impressive. Exterior color choices are also a disappointment. The rocker panels are charcoal gray no matter what the exterior color is, and don't look very good on some, like the forest green for instance.

The interior of the car is somewhat different too. The gauges glow orange even in daylight. I didn't care for that. Also, the center console is very (unnecessarily) wide. There seems to be plenty of room for all passengers, although the back seats are very contoured and will make entry & exit difficult for the less-than-agile. The rear doors, however, open extra wide on their hinges which will help. Strangely, the rear seats do not fold down to allow access to the trunk. There is a small pass through for "skis", according to the salesman, or maybe a 2x4 or something. Much of the interior and instrument trim is titanium metal. The optional "wood package" (around $250) only adds a few token pieces of wood here and there. To me, the design made the interior seem somewhat cheap and spartan. Maybe an aftermarket wood dash package would dress things up a bit.

Overall, we were impressed with the G-35, but not enough to buy one-- when we weighed all the pluses and minuses we ended up with an I-35. My final comment to the salesman on the G-35 was that it was missing a few things that should be on this level of car, probably in the next year or two they will add them. I know the G-35 is based on the Nissan Skyline; possibly this model being only sold overseas is a factor in the perceived lack of "luxury" features. The dealer we visited had about ten G's in stock, and I was told upfront that pricing was at full sticker-- at least there was no gouging beyond that. 

If you are looking for a rear-drive sporty sedan in the BMW sense, this may be your ticket. We felt that the I-35 offered a better combination of features and value, although it is a different driving experience. My suggestion would be to wait a year and see if Infiniti raises the creature comfort quotient of the G-35, and prices fall too.

UPDATE 12/02: I recently spent a full day with a new G-35 dealer loaner while my I-35 was in the shop for some minor warranty work. After driving it again, and having driven the I-35 for 6 months, I am sort of wishing I bought the G-35. The I-35 is a fine automobile, but does not like to be pushed too hard--- something I like to do occasionally. I found myself driving the G-35 at a brisk pace and pushing it in the corners. It handled it all without a whimper. Also, even though it has the same engine and only 5hp more than the I-35, it seems peppier. Also, the rear drive setup of the G-35 is better at distributing all that power. When I punch my I-35, the dreaded torque steer can make things uncomfortable in a hurry. 

I am still not that impressed with the interior appointments of the G-35, but those considering German models might not find them overly spartan. Think BMW 330i (NOT 325i) or Mercedes C320 (not 240) performance for about $10K less. I'm sure that Infiniti prices have softened since I priced one last summer, especially with the new G35 coupe. If you are in the market for a $30-40K sports sedan, you simply must drive and compare the G-35-- especially if you like more sports than luxury in your sedan.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<