DOC>
<DOCID> 3820 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Honda_CR-V </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_73398849156 </URL>
<TEXT>
            New - Update notes at the bottom!

----------------------------------------

I buy a new car roughly every ten years.  I bought a Renault Le Car in '82, I bought a Saturn SL in '92.  This year, I bought a Honda CR-V.

The time immediately preceding the buy is spent trying on vehicles as I'd try on new shoes.  How does the interior fit - Too short?  Too tight?  Too narrow?  Too hot?  Too cold?  Is everything where I think it should be?  Are the gauges easy to read?  Is there enough info from the dash indicators?  Is the radio easy to figure out?  

Then there's the consumer reports.  Reliability is a high point for me, because I'm planning to keep the vehicle long after it's paid off.  I don't mind paying for what I consider 'fair wear and tear' items, like clutches and brakes, a water pump every 100,000 miles, an alternator and starter at about the same point - but I don't like paying for stuff that's badly designed and poorly thought out.

Before buying the CR-V, I think I must have looked at every possible vehicle in the 15-20k price range.  I wanted something fairly spacious with good ground clearance, something comfortable yet stylish.  Exterior appearance was somewhat important, but interior was more so - because I'll be spending a lot of time INSIDE looking OUT, not outside looking in.  

The Kia Sportage was too small, and the interior was cheap.  I looked at a few American SUVs, but none made an impression beyond the price tag - if the sticker price was above 22,5 I turned and walked away.  The Isuzu Axiom was a possible - but the dealership acted like they couldn't care less whether I even saw one, so I didn't stick around.  Subaru's Outback was a possible, but it seemed low and cramped.  Hyundai - it wasn't impressive.

The Toyota Rav-4 was a possible.  It fit pretty well, had a lot of features I was looking for, but... the air conditioning didn't work well on the model I tested.  I checked at another dealership - again the air was weak.  Georgia in the summertime is great for testing air conditioning.  It shows up quickly when the system can't cut it.

The Ford Escape - eh.  Nothing particularly impressive or memorable about it, except a dealership that ignored someone walking around their floor model and looking around for a salesman.  The interior wasn't really cheap looking - but it wasn't luxurious or particularly comfortable.

Honda - my little boy and I were visiting dealerships, and went to the Honda place after Subaru and Hyundai.  We walked into the showroom, and I saw the CR-V.  Right color (silver - white shows dirt too easily, and I'm tired of driving a solar heat sink - so give me a reflective color...), good ground clearance, 4 doors and a spacious interior, wide-swinging rear door, and a decent sound system out of the box.  I'm not a heavy-duty audiophile, though I did have visions of installing a satellite radio receiver from either XM or Sirius...  

Got in - and the seat fit. Firm enough, yet comfortable. Enough leg-room, tons of head room, shoulder room, butt-room.  (6'2", 210 lbs, if you care - or even if you don't ;-) )  Dash - well laid out, with HUGE knobs for the air conditioning.  You could wear oven mitts and still work it.  Good visibility, too - and mirrors well placed to cover the blind spots.  

Aaron thought it was cool.  Especially how there was a tray between the front seats that folded down, and how he could walk through the space.  I couldn't fit - but then, I'm not 4 years old.  There was loads of room between the front and back seats - with the front seat all the way back I could sit behind it and have two inches clearance.  The back seats recline, increasing rider comfort.

I got a brochure and left, then did some searching on the 'net.  Reviews here were generally good, Consumer Reports recommended the CR-V.  I couldn't find any sites where the owners were griping about how bad the CR-V was.  There were some comments about how the CR-V was underpowered - but a test drive the next day would see about that.  I'm not looking for an urban drag vehicle - I'm looking for something that'll haul what I want, be comfortable, and be able to go on rather poor dirt roads.  If I wanted a dragster, I'd have gotten one. If I wanted a heavy SUV, I'd look at a Hummer.  

The test drive the next day was pretty good.  Air conditioning was COLD!  I was hoping for snow out the vents, but there's only so much you can do when the temp's 95.  Stable, comfortable, and VERY quiet on the test drive.  In fact, almost all the noise I heard in the cabin came from the tires.  This was a change from the Saturn - which doesn't have the world's quietest interior.  (Found out later that the tires were pumped to 38 psi, where the manual says 26.  Bled down the tires, and it's a lot quieter.)

Good enough.  After some haggling, the asking price was reduced from 22,5 to 20, and they took my blue-book $500 Saturn for $1000, for an end price of $19k.

Mileage so far (and I've got less than 300 miles on it so the sample is small) is about 21, 22.  About what I'd expected, actually.  I believe that the mileage will go up when the engine's broken in a bit and the weather gets cooler and I don't need to run the air so much.  I need to take a couple of long drives to get an idea of the highway mileage.

Long term, will it be worth it?  I believe so.  Honda's engineers do good work - and I like the engineering and design details inside the CR-V.  It's a vehicle I can live with.

For ten years, though?  

I hope so.

--------------------------------

1 month update - 17 September 2002

Some quick notes: Mileage has improved, it's about 22 mpg in-town, and about 24-26 on the highway.  I go on the highway seldom - so it may be better than that.  Either way - it's satisfactory.  I didn't buy this to be a gas-sipping econobox, after all.  I could have gone the hybrid route if I wanted that.

The interior is still comfortable, but every so often I get the odd feeling that the driver's seat is too large for me, like I can't get centered properly.  And at 6'2", 210 lbs, that's a peculiar sensation.  Probably it's because the driver's seat cushion is a lot firmer than I'm used to.  No biggie there - just an odd comment.  It feels more like a bench than a bucket.

The interior is quiet - my wife used to be able to tell when I was calling from my old Saturn.  Now I can actually talk with my son in the back seat without yelling!

The radio works well.  However, since buying a Kenwood Sirius receiver, I haven't worried much about the local reception.

So far, this CR-V is everything I'd hoped it would be.  It's well worth the money, and I'd buy it again in a heartbeat!



            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<