DOC>
<DOCID> 4273 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Volkswagen_Beetle </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_9833778820 </URL>
<TEXT>
              My mom bought a red manual beetle in 1999 and traded it in a for a white 2000 beetle a few months ago, which she fondly calls "Eggy".  I drive it quite often (three times a week) so I know it's quirks.  
  
  Why would anyone buy a beetle?  Well, there are tons of reasons.  First of all, they're adorable little cars.  With both beetles we've owned, people stop us everywhere we go to ask how we like our car.  It is smooth and round with tight corners and low bumpers.  The standard wheels and rims are very nice looking--not those plastic things you'd find on most cars in this price range.  The little black antenna sticks out from the back above the back windshield and gives the car a human likeness.  It seems to have it's own personality with it's eye-like headlights and smile-like hood line.  

  The inside is just as cute as the outside, especially at night.  When you turn on the headlights in the dark, the dash lights up brilliantly in neon red and blue, and I swear it does not look cheap.  It's really cute.  Tiny red lights around all the radio buttons and knobs and switches and dials.  It's great!  It's all red except for the speedometer and other dials in front of the driver--those are neon blue.  But it makes it really easy to see everything in the dark.  And if that is not enough, they even included a little bud vase by the steering wheel.  My mom always buys a fake flower for it that matches the outside color of the car.  You can also take the bud vase out if you don't like it.  

  More good things: the car is deceivingly large.  Many people tell me they couldn't own such a small car, but they're wrong.  The beetle is actually as tall as any other car, and taller than some.  Kind of like how the PT Cruiser is deceivingly large--the beetle is actually taller and longer than that car!  And the interior space is incredible.  In fact, my brother is 6'2" tall and he is more comfortable in my mom's bug than in my full size pickup truck.  The roof is much higher than in normal cars, so you sit low to the ground but the car is very tall.  The seats go back very far for taller people, and the dash comes forward so that it almost wraps around the driver.  The whole thing makes you feel like you're in the cockpit of a plane rather than a regular car.  I like the feeling of that, though.  It puts you close to the airbag and far away from any impact zones.  That reminds me about the excellent safety of the car.  In 1999 it was rated the safest car in it's class because of the dual airbags, side impact supports and all that.  I haven't personally tested any of this, but the car does feel very safe and very well-made.  In my opinion, it is the only car Volkswagen makes that is of any quality.  

  The car gets pretty good gas mileage, but watch out if you let it get close to empty.  A high-pitched alarm goes off to let you know you're almost out of gas.  The first time it happened I thought the car was going to blow up so I pulled over and got out!  It can startle you into an accident if you're daydreaming, so beware.  On the other hand, I let my truck run out of gas completely one time (not thinking about it) and had to call AAA to give me a couple gallons of gas.  A nerve-wracking alarm would've been useful to me that day.    

  Now the bad stuff: I think the car is sound mechanically, but the physical design needs some help.  First of all, the side view mirrors are in the worst position imaginable.  They are right in the corner of the window, instead of connected to the door like other cars.  This makes some situations incredibly dangerous.  For instance, if you are sitting in the left turn lane waiting to turn, you really cannot see the person in the left hand lane opposite you.  You have to really crane your neck and look around the mirror to see oncoming traffic.  Also, if you're driving on a residential street, you will not be able to see a car backing out of the driveway if you are about two or three houses away.  We've had many close calls because of those stupid side mirrors.  I wish I could rip them off.  

  Also, while the front seat is very very roomy, the back seat is incredibly tight as far as head space is concerned.  It's big enough to seat tall people regarding leg room, but it won't accommodate any adult regarding head room.  The roof of the car comes down so that you have to crouch down to fit, unless you sit in the middle seat (which isn't a seat).  I can't tell you how many times we've hit a bump and my head hit the hard metal roof.  It starts to really hurt after awhile!

  Also, the outside of the car is way too low to the ground.  You have to be very careful driving it.  Although it handles well and has tight turning, it is way too easy to scratch the front if you drive over a big dip or a slanted driveway.  My mom went too close to a curb at a drive through restaurant and wrecked the running board completely.  Those are the long boards that run along the car underneath the doors.  It cost $2000 to repair that one side.  You can easily do the same thing if you get too close to a sidewalk while parallel parking.  The tires will not hit the cement before the car does, so be careful.    

   The car is now six months old and it has already been in the shop a few times.  The passenger seat broke the second week so it wouldn't go forward to allow rear passengers on that side anymore.  They still haven't fixed that because it broke again.  Then the gas cap wouldn't open so they had to pry it open to fill it with gas.  It still gets stuck every now and then.  I think that's all, but I don't think cars should have anything breaking in the first year.    

  I have mixed feelings about this car.  I think it's cute and fun to drive, but I don't think it will last thirty plus years like the old bugs, nor will the owners want to keep them that long.  For the money though, I think they are a good buy.  You get a lot of style for a low price, and they hold their value very well.  My mom's 1999 sold for more than she paid for it!  For me, this car falls right in the middle of good things and bad things, but I'd still buy it over the other cars in its class just because of it's great image.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<