DOC>
<DOCID> 4368 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Kia_Sportage </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_28452621956 </URL>
<TEXT>
            A couple of weeks ago, we had to rent a car.  The guy at Dollar Rent-A-Car told me to look outside and pick which one I wanted in a certain row.  Well, there was the Kia Sportage.  It was a unanimous decision (myself, my 12 year old son, and my fiancee).  I couldn't wait to get in it and go, but, I had to wait.  My fiancee drove it behind me to drop off my mothers car that I had to borrow to get us to the rental agency.  

We got to my mothers house and I immediately started transferring the baby's car seat. That was pretty easy. I put him behind the drivers seat, and my 12 year old son, who is 5 feet, sat behind the passenger seat.  My fiancee is 5'11 and put the passenger seat back for comfort.  Immediately my 12 year old starts hollering.  As always, I had to fuss at both of them, they seem to enjoy this type of argument in any vehicle we get in.  My son was insisting that his legs were cramped.  I could see my fiancee didn't have as much leg room as he usually does when we are in his car (a 99 Grand Am).  I got out and went around to the rear passenger door, intending to do that "Stop whining" thing that aggravated moms sometimes do.  AS soon as I opened the door, I saw that my poor son was indeed cramped.  After a very small argument (I always win), my fiancee inched his seat up a bit more.  Off we went, to just drive around. 

We got about 2 inches from my mothers house when I noticed that my right leg was getting poked by something.  Hmm...  I stopped and looked down.  Well, hey, there's the gas tank lever, poking right smack into my leg.  I'm 5'3, in case anyone is wondering.  This thing poked me on my leg the whole entire time I was in the drivers seat.  I would get out and have a big red dent on my leg.  I had to stop by my sister-in-laws house and she had come out to see what we were driving.  I jumped out and told her to get in and sit in the drivers seat.  She's the same height as me.  Her reaction was funny, she starts hollering "What's poking me?".  Yep, that little lever was getting her, too.  Well, I decided right then that Kia must have all long-legged people designing their vehicles.  Ok, so, it hurt slightly but there wasn't a choice, in my mind, anyway.  It was either drive and get poked by the thing or let my fiancee drive.  Naturally, I had to drive.

Did I mention the reason I was at my sister in laws?  I had to pick up my 8 year old daughter.  Now, seeing how little room there was between the baby in his car seat and my 12 year old son, my mommy-brain went into overdrive and said to me "Terri, avoid the kids fighting, put the baby in the middle".  My children aren't extra large but they are well-fed and it tends to show.  I put the baby in the middle.  I figured they would have enough room to co-habitate quietly for a little while.  Guess how I discovered how well the speakers work?  :) I kept hearing, "Stop pushing the baby on my side" , "I don't have any room, the door is squishing me", "Mom!".  Ugh.

Good mommy that I am, I immediately decided to see what radio station was playing the be-bop tunes.  We tested the speakers as the volume level in the backseat increased.  Wow, great sounds.  The stereo was working really well.  The kids finally decided to sing along, since Mom had "their" station on.  The baby was just warbling along, trying to get heard over everything else.  Ahhh, peace for a few minutes.  

I was thirsty since we had been riding around looking for a place to move to before picking up the Kia.  It was hot and my mothers car doesn't like to cool down in the South Florida hot afternoons. The Kia was blowing nice and cool, but, I hadn't recovered from the heat yet. I went to 7-11 where I started a cacophony of "Slurpee, Slurpee" from the back seat.  Geez, will I ever learn?  Ok, no big deal, they weren't arguing, so, I got them Slurpees.  My fiancee and I both got sodas.  I pulled out the drink holder for us and noticed that I had to put the Kia in reverse in order to get the drinks into the cup holders.  Ok, fine, I was going to be driving anyway, who cared, right?  Uh-huh...  I forgot about it when we got to Blockbuster to rent movies.  I put the Kia in park and almost exploded the drink everywhere!  Luckily, the cup didn't break.  On a side note, the kids were great, and didn't spill their Slurpees.

I had to get groceries so off we went to the grocery store.  The Kia had a nice storage area behind the passenger seat so I figured, what the heck.  I got out of the store (and my leg still had a dent in it) and went to the back of the truck.  Hmm, let's see, what do we do?  It took a minute or two but I figured out that you have to undo the bar holding the spare tire to the back door.  I did that and unlocked it with the ignition key, and everything fit very nicely, with extra room left over.

I was not overly impressed by the time I got home but I was still happy to be driving an air-conditioned (the AC worked great!) vehicle.  We had all noticed by this time (2 hours) that the Kia did not handle bumpy roads and street construction very well at all.  Forget going over the train tracks, we felt it through and through.  I figured that these vehicles weren't built for a smooth ride, I guess they were more for 4-wheeling (what do I know?  I'm "just" a woman).

The next day, we all piled in again, to continue our hunt for the perfect dwelling to move to.  Again, I was driving.  As I sat in the drivers seat waiting for everyone to squeeze into the back and get settled, I was looking at the drivers visor.  It warned that the Kia was top-heavy and to take corners carefully.  I had already noticed that it didn't do left turns too well, I was taking them like a turtle.  I got going down the road when it was loudly brought to our attention that the baby was bottle-less.  YIKES!  I made a u-turn.  Oh, boy... that was scary.  I knew right then exactly what the visor was trying to tell me.  My fiancee was muttering about women drivers.  The kids were yelling "YAY, do that again, Mom!"  The baby was trying to yell over the kids but all he was saying was "Ba-ba ba-ba".  We got treated right then to some more of the Kia's awesome stereo system.  :)

Now, we got the bottle, and got going again.  I had my seat belt on and made the kids in the back do the same this time.  Ah, I felt safer and I took off at a much more moderate pace.  The wind was blowing a bit and let me tell you, I felt it!  It tugged at the steering and everything.  It wasn't even stormy out, it was just the regular summer-ocean breeze.  I had to go on an overpass and it did actually scare me, I was only going 20 mph on the overpass.  In my opinion, that truck is just not safe, being that top-heavy.

The truck is pretty nice but honestly, I wouldn't buy one.  Yes, it got great gas mileage, that is definitely a plus these days, but, the cons really outweighed the pros in my opinion.  For one thing, who on earth is going to buy a vehicle that pokes them in the right leg the whole time they are driving?  Yes, it's good to keep you awake but really, if you're that tired, don't drive!  The stereo really was awesome but it can't make up for everything.  The Kia is too small for my family of 5.  We fit nicely into the Grand Am but not the Kia... go figure.  The very worst part for me, though, was the way it felt in the wind and on the turns.  That truck is just not safe enough for me and mine.  It just scared me too much.  I was glad to return it.  The guy at Dollar said that he had heard similar complaints in the past and wasn't at all surprised.  

If you're looking for a cute truck to go off-roading in, I guess this is it if you don't have much money.  I wouldn't recommend it, though.  As top-heavy as it is on the regular roads, you could never get me 4 wheeling in it!

I know that I only listed my experiences here.  I'm not big on specs, if you need them, they can be found at www.kia.com.  They also have all the extra options and all listed there.  I think that someones personal experiences tell it as well as or better than all those numbers and everything, anyway, lol.  :)
            
<label> No
<rating>  2.0

</DOC>
<