DOC>
<DOCID> 4558 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1995_Geo_Prizm </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_38928617092 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my Geo Prizm brand-new in 1995, when I had just moved back to the United States from another country and had no car.  I only asked three things of a new car:  1.reliability  2. reliability  3. reliability.  And good gas mileage wouldn't hurt, either.  Though I had not done a lot of homework, I was aware that the Prizm was already highly-rated by consumers.  

Since I was on a limited income at the time, I needed a car that would be not only reliable, but reasonably priced, so that I wouldn't be socked with hefty car payments every month.  The Prizm filled the bill on both counts.  I purchased a model with five-on-the-floor manual shift.

The exterior of the car, to my unpracticed eye, is indistinguishable from other small passenger cars of its type, whose number is legion.  It is my understanding that the Prizm and the Toyota are siblings under the skin, which was fine with me as I had owned a Toyota Corolla prior to this, and it was a terrific car.

The front interior is roomy enough, though the back seat seems a bit cramped.  I have rarely carried passengers except in the front, where there is plenty of leg room;  however, anyone sitting right behind the front seat when it was pushed all the way back would probably have his knees meeting his chin.  For a family with small kids this would not be a problem, but putting 4-5 adults in this car would most likely be uncomfortable for those in the back.

The interior is fairly basic with few extra features.  What I miss most is being able to lock all four doors at once - with this car every door must be locked manually.  In addition, to unlock a back door from the outside is impossible.  For safety reasons, the back doors cannot be unlocked with the key,so a front door must be opened first, then you reach in to unlock the back door.  To aggravate matters, the push-down locks are smooth in construction so it is hard to get a good grip on one.  Combine this with the fact that in cold weather they jam - one's temper can run a bit short on a winter morning.
The cupholder is a nuisance.  It pulls out from under the radio unit, and has two holders, but is so close to the radio controls that the cups and controls jam against each other.  Not so great to fuss with in traffic.

These inconveniences aside, the car is a delight.  It handles nicely, and I have driven it(carefully) on snow and ice without snow tires or chains, and not had a problem.  It's tough, too - once by accident I ended up on a mountain road filled with rocks that felt like boulders as I jounced and slammed over them, ready to have a nervous breakdown at the size of the repair bill to the shocks, underside, etc.
It took me smoothly as ever right to the shop, where I was told there was not a thing wrong with it.  I might add that repairs on this car have been nearly non-existent;  my first major one was this summer after six years of ownership, when the starter conked and had to be replaced.  I have heard that this is usually the first to go on a Prizm, and that similar Toyota models have exactly the same problem.  The air-conditioning once needed a minor repair, but other than that chills the car down nicely and quickly and is as reliable as everything else.

Those who enjoy va-room should consider another car.  The Prizm is rather slow to accelerate, and mine really drags its tail going up long, slow inclines.  

The gas mileage is terrific - the car seems to go forever on a teacup of gas, even in stop-start city driving.

Anyone who buys this as a second-hand car is probably getting a great deal.  It would be fine as a second car for a family with teens, and a good, solid car for people who just want reliable, no-frills transportation.

I still have under 60,000 miles on this car, and plan to drive it (with regular maintenance of course) until it dies of old age.  Something tells me that will be a long time from now.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<