DOC>
<DOCID> 497 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1994_Pontiac_Bonneville </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-7D82-2F732F3-390DFD0A-prod5 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Yep, I bought a new 1994 Pontiac Bonneville back in late 1994.  This might come as a surprise to those of you who are familliar with my taste in automobiles, as I tend to like sporty imported cars, but I did my homework before the purchase and I picked the Bonneville for a number of reasons.

Before I begin, let me tell you what I bought.  It's a 1994 Bonneville SLS, semi-metallic Monterey green (always hand-washed and waxed) with the gold &quot;honeycomb&quot; wheels, and the grey leather interior.  The SLS model is the value-priced luxury package, and for some reason I think it's only available in California.  Basically, it's the Bonneville SE loaded to the hilt with every available option, except for the sunroof and CD player.  This includes the front bucket seats, power driver's seat, leather interior, premium AM/FM casette stereo with equalizer, power everything, disc brakes with ABS, overhead console, steering-wheel mounted stereo controls, premium alloy wheels, rear spoiler, fog lights, etc, etc, etc.  Think of it as the Bonneville SSE without the over-done body cladding and the ugly chrome bits.

First off, it's the most comfortable car you can get for less than $30,000, period.  There is so much room in this car, it's like a sporty, less expensive Cadillac Seville.  In the front, the driver and passenger both have miles of knee, elbow, hip, shoulder and head room.  The passenger can easily cross his or her legs.  The back seats are very roomy, and there is as much leg room as in a BMW 740i.  Three adults can actually fit semi-comfortably back there, but the middle passenger had better be either on the small side, or of the non-whining type.  With only two people in the back seat, there is an enormous amount of room to spread out and relax.

The trunk is massive (I think it's 18 cubic feet), and there is a pass-through behind the center armrest in the back seat for skis, 2x4s, etc.  There is enough room in the trunk to easily fit groceries for a family of four, while taking the baby (and the accompanying stroller and baby bag) along for the ride.

Outward visibility is excellent, thanks mainly to the large windshield and rear window and the low window sills on all four doors.  Of any car produced, this car has less of a blind spot than most.

The Bonneville is the sporty version (mechanically) of the Buick LeSabre, one of General Motors' best-selling (and <i>the</i> most reliable) family sedans.  Both have well above average reliability histories, and the Bonneville is definitely the &quot;younger&quot; of the two in stylistic terms.  Both outside and in, a sense of purposful sportiness is evident in almost every detail.  This is the stylistic opposite of the LeSabre, which is the essence of both inward and outward ultra-conservative styling.

The Bonneville SLE does without the tacky, oversized body-cladding of the SSE and SSEi trim levels.  There is still the Pontiac signature body cladding, but it is more toned down and tasteful.  It actually looks appropriate, proportional and sporty on my car.  I liked the look of the Bonneville when I first got it, and I must admit that I still like the look of the car today, six years later.  The only thing that bugs me about the styling of the car is the cheap-looking plastics used on the dash.  GM needs to wake up in this regard, as this has apparently not improved any in the past six years.

As for problems, I have had a few --but nothing major or expensive.  Oddly, at about 14,000 miles the alternator went south.  It was replaced under the factory warranty and has not given me a hint of trouble since.  At 7,000 miles the driver's door power lock decided it did not want to be powered any longer.  That too was fixed under warranty (but it still takes a day-long vacation once in a while).

The only other problems have been minor electrical glitches, none of which are serious. The electrical connection to the front passenger power window motor seems to be loose, as it sometimes does not respond to input from the switches (a good slam of the door seems to jar it back into place, after which it works for about a month or so --then another slam is needed).  The fuse for two of the three 12v outlets/cigarette lighters) just died on me about a week ago.  I suspect the same fuse is connected to the rear window defroster, since it stopped working at the same time.  I suspect a new fuse would solve both of these problems.  That's it!  We have had no other failures of any kind.

One of the reasons I bought this car was the fantastic engine.  The Bonnevile (and the LeSabre) use the long-since perfected and proven GM Series II 3800cc (3.8 liter) V6.  This is what is known as an &quot;old-school&quot; engine, since it uses pushrod valve actuators instead of the more modern DOHC (dual overhead cam) setup found in most of today's cars.  This is just fine with me, as this engine is the single most reliable powerplant GM has ever built.  I have had no problems with it, and I do not expect to have any any time soon.  These engines have been documented to last well in excess of 300,000+ miles.

However, there is another reason I love this engine.  It produces gobs of torque, even at very low rpm.  The Bonneville is a big, heavy car, and this engine is more than enough --even in its non-supercharged form (a supercharged version is available).  This car is not a rocket, but it's very powerful and quite fast, able to embarrass many cars at stop lights.  I can easily take out Hondas (all types, except Si Preludes), Nissan Maximas, 6-cylinder Firebirds, Camaros, and Mustangs, etc.

Please do not get the wrong idea: I don't drive like a madman, but here in Los Angeles, everyone seems to want to race!  I take great pleasure in embarrassing those kids in their slammed Honda Civics with the stickers all over the windows and coffee can-sized exhausts stuck on the back of thier cars.  ;-)

Another nice thing about this car is it's low-altitude cruising ability.  On the highway, the Bonneville is smooth and relatively stable.  It's not a big Mercedes-Benz, but it's a wonderful highway car.  The only complaints I have about highway cruising in the Bonneville are: wind noise from around the front door seals, and slight floatiness when you go over a big dip in the pavement at 70+ mph (think Lexus LS400).  Neither of these things are of major concern, however.

For its size, the Bonneville actually handles very well.  It feels more stable at high speeds and more predictable/agile in corners than almost all of it's competitors --and trust me: I drove them all before deciding to purchase the Bonneville.  The Taurus/Sable twins were horrid (no kidding), the Camry was very predictable, but the tires howled like mad around corners (and it felt very light on the highway at 65+ mph). The Accord handled well, but suffered from a suspension with not enough travel (the springs compressed to the max too easily over minor bumps resulting in a relatively harsh ride).  The only car that out-handled it was the Nissan Maxima, but the car was <i>soooo bland</i> (stylistically) that I really didn't like it very much.

Other cars I drove at the time which also did not match up to the Bonnevilles abilities were the Mazda 626 and Millennia, and Acura Vigor.  None of these felt as intuitive on the road, or offered anywhere near the level of luxury of the Bonneville.  The Dodge Intrepid was never an option, primarily because Dodges just suck, in my humble opinion.  Seriously, I've never heard of anyone having a Dodge that didn't have lots of problems.

Overall, I like the Bonneville, although sometimes my friends do give me odd looks, wondering why I would have picked a GM product instead of an imported car.  My reasons for doing so are simple: I got a <i>lot</i> more for my money then I would have with any of the Bonnevilles competitors.  More oomph, more room, more luxury, more standard features, better looks (IMHO --although I did like the styling of the Mazda Millennia too), etc.  Also, since I was planning on keeping the car for a long time (I'll probably have it for another three to five years), I was not all that concerned with depreciation (which would have prevented me from buying the Bonneville if I had been, by the way).

These days, you can pick up a used 1994 Bonneville for anywhere from $4,0000 to $12,000, depending largely upon the mileage of the car.  My car is probably worth towards the high end of that scale, since I have just less than 40,000 miles on it to date.  The car serves my family well in its role of family-hauler and the massive cargo capacity has been appreciated many times.  Fuel economy is decent for a car of this size, with us averaging about 19-20mpg overall (about 35% highway driving).

I strongly reccommend the Bonneville as a used car, provided you find one with a clean history and relatively low miles for its age.  Overall score out of ten (encompasing everything mentioned here) would have to be a strong eight+.

Thanks for reading my Epinion!  I hope you found it to be informative and helpful.  Please rate it highly if you liked it! :-)<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<