DOC>
<DOCID> 5362 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1995_BMW_3_Series_Convertible </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_101531029124 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my 325IC from a dealership "pre-owned" in 1998 with 20K miles on it. I know... totally low miles, I couldn't resist. Obviously a lease turn-in, in virtually new condition inside and out. 

It has been the most reliable, most enjoyable car I have ever driven. Sure, maintainence is pricey, but worth every penny on a summer's day cruising Pacific Coast Highway. Getting the right of way from businessmen in suits and getting parked up front at the valet is pretty cool, too.

More than a few comments have been made to me regarding the body style now that it's been changed. It seems car connoiseurs prefer this body style to the new one. I whole-heartedly agree!

Suggestions when purchasing: Use the top. A LOT. Before your warranty expires, if it came with one. Some of the cables used to position the inside of the top came loose shortly after I bought it. They were replaced, and no problems since. Also, the plastic rear window (the only improvement I can see in the newer models is the glass rear window)is quite prone to clouding and creasing over time. This is mostly caused by the plastic rubber against itself when the top is down. BMW makes a handy clip-on "towel" of sorts for the Z3 convertible model, but it also fits the 3-series just fine. I also had the rear window replaced shortly after buying it (under warranty, it had cracked a bit in the bend), and today it still looks new; I credit this to using the "towel" religiously and using the BMW-authorized cleaner and polish. This stuff seems to make any clouding disappear, although it is a bit of a hassle to get up in there to use it. It's well worth it, since I am sure the rear-window replacement is pricey. Also invest in the windscreen (around $400) but try to negotiate this if buying from a dealer. I did, and he threw it in at no cost! If you're female, or plan on having any as a passenger, it's well worth not having "convertible hair", and yes, it does work, amazingly efficiently, at reducing the inside "blowage" considerably. I'd say it's 80% less windy inside! When you have passengers in the back, the screen folds up perfectly to fit inside the trunk.

Sure, passengers hate sitting in the back seat with the top up, and the windscreen prevents any passengers in the back seat at all, but when the top is down (sans windscreen), who cares about having virtually no legroom in the rear? Road noise is a bit of an issue with the top up, but again, who cares? This car isn't about the practicality of being a 4 passenger vehicle. This car is about driving pleasure, and it delivers with style. 

The front seats rival your Uncle Stanley's La-Z-Boy, especially with sheepskin covers. I invested in these after finding that even with light tan leather interior, the seats heat up fast in the sun, making shorts or lightweight bottoms of any kind a bit uncomfortable in the summer. I bought the BMW sheepskin vests. I believe they were under $200 for the pair, and they make for a very comfy drive. Since my only reason for these was the butt-stickage factor, I didn't fork over the big bucks ($400+) for whole seat covers. The vests serve my purpose just fine, and I recall thinking the price for these was a steal, considering they are from the BMW catalogue

I am going to refrain from going into detail with regards to the deeply mechanical aspects of my vehicle. I am not much of a techie when it comes to cars, I leave that stuff to my boyfriend, and there are other reviews on here that detail the mechanical splendor of these cars. As far as handling, engine and transmission issues, I'll simply say that this car certainly lives up to BMW's reputation as the "Ultimate Driving Machine". 

One instance I did have with regards to handling, was a road trip up the coast shortly after acquiring my beauty. I was used to the power and handling of my previous vehicle, a compact import, let's just say. Driving the curves of Highway 1 north of Los Angeles (a scenic drive that almost requires a convertible!) I found myself slowing down considerably on the coastal curves, just being nervous about the unfamiliar snakey road. During a pit-stop, a German couple commented on how fun our drive must be. I realized I wasn't exactly allowing myself to enjoy it, so (obeying the posting speed limit, of course) I forced myself to let go a bit, and not drive like an 80-year old grandmother in a Crown Vic, as I had been. "Stop slowing so much on the bends" was my mantra, and I was pleasantly surprised by how this car handled the road. It made it much more of an enjoyable trip once I joined my car in exploring it's capabilities. 

A previous comment regarding the seat warmers makes me want to address the issue. I use mine often, especially on not-too- balmy summer evenings when the top is down. I think they are a godsend and if they are not standard in the 3-series convertible, they should be. Mine have been trouble-free during my ownership of the car, but since it seems some do have problems, I do suggest the same thing as mentioned above about the electric top, use them A LOT before the warranty expires. This should be enough time to get any bugs in the system fixed. Other epinions complain about the small trunk as well. Yes, it's a known fact that convertibles have small trunks. I've never seen a convertible with a large one, but then again, people in the market for a convertible car aren't the same ones who want a station wagon. The upside or this is that your friends will NOT be asking you to help them move. The downside is that a small dresser can be transported short distances with the top down in the back seat, as well as any number of IKEA boxes. Best not to let this secret get around too much.

The control panel is easy enough to figure out, even for me, who was used to the set up used by Japanese manufacturers. Early in our relationship, I thought it was a design flaw that the heating and air controls were not back-lit when the headlights were on, only to find in a friend's BMW  (same year, hard top 3-series) that they indeed were lit. A simple warranty-covered replacement bulb was put in and I was back to my current opinion that this is the best car, ever.  

My only real negatives about this car are cosmetic. I'd like an extra lighter for the cell phone (I rented a Mustang that had one, thought it was a cool idea) and it seems that German cups are made to a different standard than ours here. Even with the adapter, a medium-size fast food cup is the only one that fits perfectly. I do have a Starbucks commuter mug that also works fine, but aside from those, most cups are not a perfect fit. 


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<