DOC>
<DOCID> 5437 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Hyundai_Elantra </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_59576061572 </URL>
<TEXT>
            After spending countless hours on the internet reading for what seemed like months every review a person could ever filter through, I finally went to check out the Elantra. My initial thought upon deciding to purchase a new vehicle was "Go Honda/Toyota/Mazda/Nissan". After all, I've owned a Toyota, Mazda, and a 12-year old Pulsar and they were all relatively dependable cars. I was looking for something I could drive into the ground, but enjoy the process. Now 28, and a family man with a 50-mile one-way commute, I wanted a new vehicle that would last. I also didn't care to pay a premium for a name or an image. Quality and Value...those were the benchmarks for my decision.

The Journey

Drove the Civic and found it to be very solid and was impressed with the good MPG and simple body style, but was turned off by the Premium-Price-Bare-Bones, "Will you adjust the passenger mirror down and to the left...WAIT! You went too far!" routine. 

Drove the Corolla and it sounded like my old pickup...that "Toyota" sound. Nothing bad, just always reminds me that in ten years their cars still sound just like their trucks. In the drivers seat, the door seemed a little to eager to be my buddy. Read: poor shoulder room. (And I'm not a big guy). Ok, move on.

Drove the Sentra. Impressed with the improvement over the Sentra's of old...those gutless, cheaply made remnants of my high school years. Nice, but I didn't like how the seats absolutely conform around my torso. I dig ergonomics, but come on! Just a bit too supportive, if you know what I mean.

Drove the Neon just for kicks. To see what it was like. I think Dodge has come out with some nice curves of late, but I felt like the driver's door ended 2 inches too far North, resulting in blocked peripheral vision. That's not something you want to deal with every time you need to make a right turn. It also drove sort've sluggish and like it only felt confident going straight. 

Drove the Ford Focus. Well, the reason I was in the market was because my wife & I owned an Explorer. Explorer=Money Pit. But I had read so many positive reviews and had actually worked on some Focus commercials and saw they were good cars so I had to keep an open mind. Maybe I'd give Ford another chance. Yeah right. Don't get me wrong, it drives sort of smooth, but bounces over dips and bumps in the road (a fact later confirmed by my later readings), and has a few good different body style-options. But have you seen the UFO dash layout? You must be a dweeb to think it's cool. 

Drove a Kia Sephia on a good friend's recommendation that it was a very dependable transport option (he's had one for 3 years). The seats are very stiff and unflattering to the concept of comfort but I thought the drive quite nice and the acceleration responsive. However, I then noticed the Hyundai dealer across the street. 

Let's Go Check It Out

My wife and I stopped in and simply asked the sales guy what was their econo sedan model and he showed us the Accent. Nah. OK, this here's the Elantra GLS...After telling us about it we thought we'd humor ourselves with yet another test-drive. Driver's license handed over and photo-copied, we were free to roam, get this, without him. YES! Finally I can redline this puppy, slam on the brakes, take a corner hard! And I did. I was so enthused with the experience that once home I started my Hyundai research. 


Was Hyundai a company to be trusted? After all, who's not aware of their past reputation with the ill-fated Excel? I never even heard of any car they made nor knew anyone who owned a Hyundai. I wasn't sure so I had to read. Surprisingly, I discovered Hyundai is on a mission to put out good cars at even better prices. Though I presume their pricing to walk arm-in-arm with their reputation up the stairs as they prove themselves to consumers over time. Enough about the company, how about the car?

The Hyundai Elantra GT

This was the puppy in the showroom. Silver, tinted like she was a limo. Wow! Check this out: Leather, and smartly located crannies to store stuff. Drink holders that look like they really hold your Super-Sized. A leather wrapped steering wheel. Well balanced dash. Purple cluster. Short-throw shifter. Ample headroom. Back seating for humans. 60/40 split seats. Clear, HID looking headlamps. 15" wheels (not hubcaps). 4-wheel disk brakes. Fogs. 

We thought the looks of the car were nice and we remembered our experience driving the funky upholstered GLS and wanted to try a drive again. This time we were truly hooked. The car feels as solid as all the reviews boasted. It  accelerates with bravado and handles bumps with a firm, yet absorbing quality that is clearly the work of thoughtful engineering. Body roll in curves is minimal and road feel is tempered through the well designed power steering module. The shifter feels "right" in your hand and is reminiscent of a Miata I once knew, ready to have fun at every curve in the road. The car simply drives nice, has adequate power, has a manly acceleration howl, yet quiets down in 5th going 70 MPH due to its' liquid engine mounts. At night, the headlights give great illumination and the fog lamps add just the right touch of style that even a blind hermit crab could appreciate. The purple instrument cluster with vibrant red hands are eye-catching and set this car apart from her green and amber colored dashboard friends. The factory stereo CD is good (like the tweeter guys!), though it won't win any audiophile awards. My only complaint is when upshifting there seems to be a lag between first and second if your not really gasing it, though this is rather minor to a vehicle that is well-rounded in every way and doesn't seem like the price point that it is. It is very easy once inside to think you are in a Saab. Or even a Delorean with a flex-capacitor.

My Advice

Don't even bother with the GLS. They are a dime a dozen for a reason. The GT's are harder to get. Try the two and you'll see what I mean. For a few thousand dollars more than the GLS you can have a FULLY LOADED car still $2-4K LESS than what any competitor will deliver. If you are planning on reselling, stick with the Big 3. If you plan on keeping this car, then who cares what the resale value is? It will surely outlast and outperform (remember Elantra has +15 HP on average MORE) the others. Hyundai brags on their "Hyundai Advantage" but which I found (once in the finance department) to have more exclusions and fine print than at first appears. It only covers defects and excludes "wear & tear", a designation that is solely up to the service department at time of repair. So, we were able to get their "extended warranty" for @ $900 which made the warranty truly exceptional in that it is BUMPER TO BUMPER for 10 years AND is transferable. Anything goes wrong (other than normal maintenance [brakes, clutch, etc.]) they fix it on their dollar. Like I said, we're going to drive this puppy to its' grave at least a decade from now, and the extended warranty made sense for our situation. Think for yourself.

What are you waiting for? Go get this car. I did all the work so you don't have to. 

Once more thing, if you don't have a Costco membership you are losing out Big Time. You will save your membership fee after purchasing your first bag of buffalo wings! But here's the secret: Costco has a "car buying program" with participating dealers that will get you the car for only $100 over invoice. Sound too good to be true? Well, with Costco (IMA FIERCE ADVOCATE of their 100% Satisfaction Guarantee and their rock-bottom pricing) it may seem so but it isn't. Also, I promise you will save hundreds on your insurance policy if you insure your new Elantra GT through their Costco/American Express Insurance company. I did.

Thanks for your attention, have a good one.

Chris P.
Denver, CO

July 2002 UPDATE:

Just thought I would drop in to let you know how our experience has been with the GT for the past 4 months. The wife and myself are still stoked on our ever cool GT. I say "ever cool" because the temperature index is lowered by the Colorado street legal tint and the AC that has been going non-stop this hot and dry summer. The recirculation feature on the the AC came in handy for a few weeks because my commute included driving through the smoke fallout from the wildfires. I didn't smell a hint of smoke until I got out of the vehicle and then the campfire smell hit me again. Nice thing to know if you know there's a skunk in the road!

The car handles and accelerates surprisingly well in the 75-100 MPH range. My sweet wife accidentally locked our 3 month old son in the house and I got the call to come home FAST. I knew he was OK (sleeping), but I took the opportunity to go fast with the idea that I had a great excuse should one of Colorado's finest pull me over. This guy in a new Sentra thought I wanted to race so for 40 miles on interstate 25 between Denver and Colorado Springs we danced between those in the slow lane and those in the "fast" lane who really don't get it. At 85+ MPH our cars seemed like equals in terms of acceleration, I probably won because I made a few smarter moves that left him stuck behind a truck. On other days going 65 MPH, I have dropped it into 4th to pass someone quick and it does so nicely.

The Feeling of First Love Eventually Fades and Reality Sets In

A lame thing I recently discovered is that the power window lock prevents everyone from controlling the windows, DRIVER INCLUDED. Dearest Hyundai engineers, the lock button is meant to keep annoying children from playing with the switches in the back seats, not prevent the driver from doing so. Err.

The Genuine Hyundai leather bra looks nice, but it doesn't have the perfect fit you would hope, and in another lapse of design-smarts, the top two pieces by the headlights have no fastening mechanism and they face forward....which means they get blasted by the wind and stick 1" straight up. I've thought about sticky taping them down, but haven't got around to it. I'll probably show a dealer soon and see what they have to say.

A few minor things I would hope Hyundai would refine on the 2003 offering: the AC and RECIRCULATING pilot switches that emit a faint green light are impossible to distinguish during daylight hours. One has to cup their hand over the switches to see if they are on or off. Another is having lighted overhead switches for night driving. The driver/passenger map light switches are not ergonomic (so you can't even feel them very well) nor are they illuminated at all. At night my hands still fumble trying to push in the mystery button to give light. While your at it Hyundai, light up the moon roofs switches too. It would also be very handy to have another light over the rear passenger area, as it is dark back there....I saw a very cool cupholder in a Suburu Forrester for the backseat patrons, another request of mine.

But other than that, we LOVE our GT and get quized on it all the time. I've been seeing a lot of Hyunadai's on the road lately and 4 different GT's just this week. Must mean people are listening to my ePinion. :)

Chris
now living in Colorado Springs 

 




            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<