DOC>
<DOCID> 633 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec_Cameras-Digital_NikonCoolpixx-Nikon_Coolpix_950 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-14A2-107FE47C-3991ADEA-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I have had my Nikon CP950 for what has to be almost a year now.  I have enjoyed using this camera so much that I did something I never thought I'd do, which is to fully retire my film camera!  The Nikon is that good.

I use my CP950 for all kinds of photos, both indoor and outdoor.  It is quite difficult to take a bad picture, as the metering and AF on the camera are so accurate.  Very impressive is its ability to take great pictures in low light.  However, I would recommend an external Nikon flash unit if you are trying to capture large spaces with low light.  The built-in flash will only reach so far.

WHAT ELSE YOU'LL NEED TO PURCHASE

The 8MB Compact Flash card that was supplied with the camera is a joke, so you will need to upgrade.  I would recommend at least a 32MB card, which provides plenty of memory for week-long trips.  In addition, the batteries that ship with the camera will be dead in no time.  I recommend planning ahead for this occasion by immediately purchasing a good set of NiMH rechargeable batteries along with a charger.  A great source for batteries is Thomas Distributing (http://www.thomasdistributing.com), which is where I purchased a MAHA C204F charger and (8) 1500mAh NiMH batteries.  They now have a kit available which includes the charger and 4 batteries for $33.90.  They shipped out my order immediately.  The batteries last a LONG time.  I went away for a week and barely had to recharge them once!  

In addition to batteries and a new CF card, you'll absolutely want to invest in a USB card reader.  It is painfully slow to transfer images using the supplied serial cable and Nikon View software.  I purchased a SanDisk USB Card Reader for $60 or so.  It sets up easily, and shows up as another drive on your Windows Explorer.  Simply pop the CF card into the reader, then drag and drop.  Super easy and super fast!  

IMAGES

The camera takes beautiful pictures, as any Nikon camera should.  The images tend to be more accurate than the Kodak digicams, which means that they don't always jump out at you like the Kodak images do.  However, if you like your images artificially bright and vivid, then any photo editing software will do the trick (such as HotShots - which ships with the camera).  

The 2 megapixel resolution provides enough detail to print sharp 8 x 10 photos.  I recently got an Epson 870, and the quality of the images it has reproduced from the CP950 have been impressive.  They truly rival processed film images, and I only paid $249 for it.  Technology is amazing, isn't it.

OWNER'S MANUAL

Believe it or not, I did not even bother reading the manual.  I played around with the camera for a few hours and became very adept at taking basic photos.  Experimentation is a blast with a digicam, as you don't blow through film and processing fees in the process.  I did take a quick look at the manual, and it seems very detailed.

BUILD QUALITY

The camera's build-quality is exceptional save for one major oversight - the plastic door that covers the Compact Flash card slot.  This door is flimsy, and uses the most ludicrous means of snapping shut.  I am just waiting for the day when it ceases to snap shut and eventually falls off.  Nikon has apparently addressed this in the new CP990 with an alternative setup.

OPERATION

Sometimes the camera can seem a bit slow, but only when compared to film cameras.  When compared with other digicams in its class, it is fast.  I can usually snap three shots in 5 seconds or so.  Not too bad, but not the right tool to quickly snap action shots.  The other negative aspect of using the camera is the fact that when the camera is powered off, the zoom lens setting is reset and the camera turns back on and automatically zooms the lens all the way in versus returning it (or simply keeping it) to the last setting.  This seems minor, but is actually a major annoyance since the camera is shutting off every 30 seconds to save battery power.  So if you are taking shots of a landscape and have the lens zoomed out, then wait even 30 seconds to take the next shot, the camera will have zoomed all the way in and you will have to manually adjust the zoom back out.  This is probably the only major grip I have with the CP950, which is saying a lot.  You can adjust the auto off feature, but at the expense of using more battery power - which isn't worth the tradeoff.

I do really like the form-factor of the Nikon, with the split-body that allows the LCD and lens to pivot.  It gives you plenty of flexibility and comfort, and even lets you spin the lens all the way around for taking self-portraits!  This flexible design also lets you be quite inconspicuous for great candids, as the subjects won't even realize that the camera is in position to take a shot.  Meanwhile you are peering down at the LCD and framing a great candid!

The interface is simple once you learn what all the various icons mean.  At first I relied on the LCD to frame my photos, but have since moved to the viewfinder, which I find much more natural.  For general picture-taking, I don't worry too much about how the image will look in the LCD, as the camera always seems to capture a great shot.  I feel very confident that when I press the shutter button, a great photo will ensue.  This is the type of confidence this camera has inspired in me!  When I first got the camera, I would fanatically check every shot through the LCD.  No more.

Speaking of the LCD, it is bright and sharp.  Even so, in bright sunlight it will be challenging to use.  But that is why there is a standard viewfinder on the camera!  A nice touch is the fact that the LCD first shows a low-resolution representation of a shot to help speed up the process of scrolling through already taken shots.  Wait a second, and the LCD fills the gaps, providing a high-resolution picture.  

SUMMARY

It is amazing.  Lately it seems that the tech-gadgets I have purchased keep surpassing my expectations, and this Nikon is the most extreme example of this.  For general point-and-shoot photography, the camera can do no wrong.  Like I said, it is tough to take a bad shot.  However, the advanced functionality of the camera is not nearly as intuitive.  I bought the CP950 in part due to its ability to give the user some creative control through shutter speed and aperture setting.  While I have experimented a little with this, I would be doing so much more often if it was simpler to understand and navigate through these functions.  I suppose I should read the manual thoroughly and this issue may be resolved.

The camera, with its magnesium body, should hold up to lots of use as long as I don't drop it.  Word to the wise, do NOT drop the camera, as it will likely break.  While the case is strong, the lens assembly and AF system are rather fragile (no more so than other cameras though).

This camera is nearly perfect considering the technology available at the time of manufacture.  Fix the flimsy cover, give me a bit more optical zoom than the 3X, make the advanced functions more intuitive, and fix the zoom lens annoyance and things would be just about perfect!  Others complain about the lens cap not being attached to the camera, but I found the easy cure...just don't use it!  The lens seems to be well-protected in the supplied soft case, and the only time I have it out of the case is when I am shooting.  Problem solved.

The new CP990 is out now, and raises the ante with better resolution and built-in USB connectivity among other things.  You may be able to find the CP950 at a bargain...and what a bargain that would be!<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<