DOC>
<DOCID> 6447 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1995_Toyota_Camry_Sedan </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_58836553348 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my '95 Camry XLE in July of '99. It had 91k miles at the time and it was fantastic. Before finding this car, I was in the market for either a Camry, Accord, or Maxima. The problem with these cars is that there are very many wrecked cars, which has been repaired and put back on the market. Often times, CarFax does not reflect this problem. It took me over 3 months to find about 3 or 4 cars within a reasonable price range, which hasn't been wrecked. It's really easy to tell. Most importantly, pop the hood and look for the vin # stickers on each side of the fender right under the hood. The hood should also have original vin # stickers. If the car hasn't got it, that means that the fenders or hood has been replaced. That's not a good sign because there is no way of telling if the frame has been damaged. The frame is almost irrepairable. With that out of the way, on to the Camry. My Camry comes with a 3 disc in-dash cd changer with cassette, am/fm radio, and 6 speakers. I tell you what, this sound system is absolutely fantastic. The sound is remarkably crisp, it has ample bass, and it reproduces the cd sound very well. I have never used the cassette player so I don't know how well it functions. Unfortunately, mine is a 4 cylinder. The major disadvantage is that the camry with a 4 cyl is extremely slow. Do not expect to pass many cars. The benefit, though, is that the 4 cyl is more reliable than the V6. If you are skeptical, you have your right to be since Toyota has a reputation for building very reliable cars. The V6 camry has more minor problems which I have heard about from the mechanics at the dealership, car salesmen, and a friend who has got a v6 Camry of the same year. The major difference is that the v6 Camry's transmission does not hold up nearly as well as the v4's. In the past, Toyota has had major problems with their A/C systems, but mine is working fine so I'm convinced that they should have had this problem resolved. I've had this car for almost 3 years now. I've had to replace a water tank and cv joints. Total repair cost is less than $400. As of now, my Camry has 117k miles. I have a '99 Camry in the house. In all honesty, my '95 drives almost as well as my '99. The engine is rock solid. There are no signs of deterioration at all. My leather has very little wear on it, especially in the back. I only treat it every few months so the quality is quite nice although it's not Mercedes type leather. The '95 Camry has better road visibility than the '99. Either the '95 has thinner pillars or it just has better placement, I don't have to strain so hard to check out blind spots or turn around to see what's behind me when I'm backing out as I do with the '99. The headlights are acceptable, but a lot of the newer cars have better functioning lamps, not considering HID lights. For me, the armrests on both sides of the driver's seat are placed perfectly. I am actually able to rest my arm on them while I drive. I can't do that with some other cars. The cup holders hold 12oz Coke cans, but anything larger has to be held by your hands. They have improved that starting on the '97 models. There is only one cigarette lighter outlet and no additional outlets for your cell phone charger or your radar dector. They have also improved that in their '97 and up models. The sunroof has the up and down tilting as well as the complete retraction ability. The factory paint is good quality and holds up with regular waxing. The rear seats can be folded down and the opening to the trunk is plenty wide, wider than the '99. The ABS brakes work well and they give plenty of feedback. My ABS works overtime, it seems, because I feel it kicking back when I pass the slightest bumps while braking under slippery conditions. They prevent lock up very well. The '95 Camry has a great suspension, which offers a very soft and bump reduced ride. Because of the softer suspension, your handling is sacrificed. We also have a '97 Accord in the family and it has a much harder suspension. You won't be able to drive your Camry like a sports car. It won't take fast turns and quick braking. On highway speeds, it is tougher to keep straight than other cars. This is true for the '99 as well. I've heard about this from other Camrys and also Sienna owners. The Camry is harshest at around 80mph. The steering wheel will jitter a bit, similar to the '99 and Siennas. The Camry is absolutely smooth at 100mph so I wonder why that is so. Lastly, the weather barrier behind the doors tend to melt in hot weather. I live in Houston so it's constantly around 100 degrees. I have soiled a lot of clothes by getting the melted rubber on shirts and pants; it doesn't come off. Well, these are my few negative thoughts for my Camry. What I haven't mentioned as a positive should be inferred as being positive because other than these negatives, the rest is positive. All in all, I just have this notion that this car will last me as long as I want it to last me. That is a strong statement. I love my Camry. It is truly worry free. I don't ever do the dealer maintenance or anything like that, I just change the oil(20w-50, a little thicker) every 2500-3000 miles. I use premium gas, preferrably Texaco. My car runs as smoothly as a new car with this type of mainentance. 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<