DOC>
<DOCID> 7172 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1991_Toyota_4Runner </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-F36-4E471C2-3858C402-prod4 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I've always owned American trucks until my first Toyota. Since then I've owned 3 of their trucks as well as 2 of their cars (see my other opinions for a review of the Camry). 

My first Toyota vehicle was a 1987 4Runner with a turbocharged 4 cylinder engine. It was rugged and reliable but always having to idle down the turbo was a pain (a common complaint with turbo owners). I sold it later and bought a 1989 Xtra Cab 4X4 pickup with the 3 liter V6 and 4 speed auto transmission, and was instantly hooked! Unfortunately it was totalled in a parking lot (the drunk driver who hit it was arrested). My latest is a 1991 (also V6/auto) with almost 140,000 miles on it now and running like the day I bought it. While I can rave about the ergonomics, attention to detail and the like, I prefer to describe how these vehicles have been used and their response.

I'm a serious offroader. A frustrated ex-dirtbike racer with shot knees. I tend to take it out on my trucks. The American trucks (I won't start a brand war here) began to rattle and fall apart after much hard use, even with suspension and frame upgrades.

What makes the Toyota stand apart from most of the other midsize trucks is not just the durability but the availability of high quality aftermarket parts. It lends itself well to personalization, though mine was built strictly from a utilitarian point of view. I know there are parts for all trucks, but with serious companies like Downey Offroad, the Toyota lends itself to being very well beefed up beyond what Rancho and others offer.

The stock truck is a great machine as it is. It's perfect for the family with loads to haul, who live in snow country, or just want to get away from the city every now and then. The stock tires work well on the street but are very limited in off-road applications and like most &quot;car tires&quot; are prone to flats. Since most trucks are driven more than 90% on the road, just the addition of stiffer shocks and better tires and the truck would fit almost any need. My needs are a bit different and the Toyota has met my expectations and then some!

My trucks are always my second vehicle...my toy. Approximately 1/3 of their actual mileage is spent in very strenous off-road use. By that I mean serious rocks, mountainous use with no trails, fording rocky streams, pre-running Baja type courses, even taking large jumps (I'm talking many feet high here, not inches). For that type of use a bit of upgrading makes a lot of sense.

For larger tires, stiffer torsion bars and properly valved dual shocks are handy to keep the tires from bouncing like basketballs. Heavier duty skidplates and welded on (bolt ons do no good if they're hanging loose from the banging) axle trusses make a lot of sense. I won't go into details but you get the idea.

After almost 9 years of this type of abuse, the truck has held up amazingly well! It's had one visit to the shop for a tuneup and that's the only major work ever. It has no rattles, squeaks or other annoyances. In fact, the amazing thing is the only parts I've ever broken are the aftermarket add-ons like a dual shock mount (replaced in 45 minutes by a clutz like me), bolt on axle truss, etc. I've never broken a Toyota part!

It fits my long torsoed, short legged, 6'1&quot;, 230 lbs of mostly beer gut, perfectly. Plenty of headroom, plenty of legroom and no cramped feeling. It's been driven across the country several times, abused off-road at the other end and always returned me home reliably. The seats are very comfortable, as is the stock ride. The back seats are definately for small kids or cargo, though.

Mileage hasn't been what I would expect from a 6 cylinder, but then again I tend to push it. It's heavy and I feel it's underpowered. It won't win many drag races, but it'll keep running no matter what you throw at it. The engine and transmission cooling systems are amazing. They stay cool regardless how overworked, even at low speed when cooling air is not as available.

With as many of these trucks hitting the used vehicle market lately, I felt called to give my experiences with the 3 that I've owned. If you find a good price on one, don't pass it up! I can't think of a truck that performs better offroad and is more reliable..well, perhaps a Hummer.


<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<