DOC>
<DOCID> 7200 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Acura_3_2CL </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_98326187652 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Specs for the 3.2CL Type-S model:
2 door, Front Wheel drive, 4 passenger luxury coupe
3.2Liter 260HP 60deg. VTEC (Variable Valve Timing and Lift Electronic Control), 24 valve SOHC (Single OverHead Cam) at 6800RPM
232 lb-ft torque, at approx. 3800RPM
5 speed sportshift
Weight: 3400lbs
All season 215/50 VR-17 Michelin MXMV4 Pilots
0-60mph in 6.5s (5.9 for the 6-speed)

I have always lusted for this car, the moment I saw rants and reviews on it.  Powerful V6, sleek conservative line, nicely styled rear end with big dual chrome exhaust pipes, xenon lights, thickly bolstered sport leather seats.

How could you resist having a V6 VTEC engine making 260 horses for $30,000 for the Type-S?

Acura engineering demonstrates that it makes some of the best engines in the world.

Test drive a CL-S, and you will quickly understand what I mean. Turn the key in the ignition, and the V6 SOHC VTEC 3.2 liter engine will fire up with a throaty, burbly, elegant exhaust note. Step on gas to rev it up, it will effortlessly pull up to its 6900 RPM redline. Pedal feel for the throttle is direct and linear.

Take your time to make the necessary adjustments on its 8 way power seat. Your back and sides will adjust to the thickly bolstered leather. The seats in the CL-S are combined with finely crafted perforated leather, nice to the touch and easy to the eyes. The seats in the CL-S are much better than the ones in the TL-S: the side bolsters are deeper, and the thick, half-bagel shaped headrest is nicer than the inverted-V shape in the TL-S.  However, with those deep bolsters, remember to take all pagers and cellphones from your waist, as they will be uncomfortable.

Headroom is somewhat reduced, because of a thicker roof structure and lining because of the power moonroof. I'm not tall (5'9") and will sometimes find my scalp brushing the headliner above me.

Rear seat space is good, but unfortunately the rear seats do not fold down or split. There is a lockable, plastic door behind the center seat (which is not supposed to be one, its hard!), which will allow large thin objects,  like ski poles, to protrude into the cabin.

A glance at the perfectly arranged center dash, will reveal silver faced dials with red needles.  All dials are nicely recessed with high quality plastics, and are not "flat out" like most cheapo cars. The tach at the left with the SportShift indicator,  160mph speedo at the center, temp and gas gauges at the right. At night, a slight green light illuminates the numbers in the dials, and the background is dark. Instrumentation is very good and responsive, as they have always been in Hondas.

Two front airbags, and side airbags for front driver and passenger are standard.

There is a power walk in feature in both front seats. Lifting the quick tilt handle located on the side bolster, with the doors open and the car parked, will make the seat to electrically move forward as to ease access to the back seats. This is quite a neat feature, even though I almost never carry any people in the back seat. Returning the seat to its initial position will make the seat return to is original position, in less than 5 seconds.

A very nicely shaped 4-spoke steering wheel, with perforated leather grips and leather stitching extends towards you. This time, refinement took place over previous CL-S models, and the center of the wheel sports a glossy black-on-silver "A" Acura badge. The steering wheel adjustments are only up-and-down, and does not telescope. I would have preferred this wheel to be slightly smaller, meatier, and sportier, perhaps with red-stitching (perhaps 350mm). Like the RSX's wheel!

On the 7-8 o'clock of the steering wheel, you have three buttons: up/down volume at the edges, and changing radio stations/CD tracks on the middle. Even they are pretty useful when adjusting the volume, they sometimes interfere while making slow speed manuevers that will sometimes make you to grab the wheel in that position. On the 4-5 o'clock, are the cruise control buttons: set/accelerate, cancel, resume/decelerate.

The Acura horn sound, surprisingly, is not a cheap sound "BEEP" like Hondas (even Accords) do. Instead, it sounds like an european-horn sound, BMW and Audi like, if you know what I mean.

Easy to reach air/temp controls positioned above the Acura-Bose 6 disc in dash CD changer and cassette stereo. They are very precise, as they have a precision, clicky feel while turning them. A slight dissapointment, as one would expect a tighter bass response from such a finely crafted 6 speak Bose system. Perhaps a subwoofer, like in the RSX Type-S, would have come in handy.

A large midrange speaker, covered with fine speaker-type cloth mesh, occupying the frontal door panel, as well as a small tweeter is located higher (where the side mirrors are). Two midrange speakers with hard-shell grill is located on the top of the back seats as usual. 

Real brushed aluminium trim on the door panels, surrounded by more perforated leather.... Slam the door shut, and the door feels thick, and closes with a thud. More brushed aluminum trim surrounds the center console, down from the air controls down to your sides. The only problem lies with the trunk, which does not shut unless you apply moderate effort in it.

This car begs to be driven hard every time, and it will not give up. Move the shifter through its maze and shift to D5. Yes, it has a 5 speed automatic, with closely spaced gear ratios. Move the lever to your left, and you will engage manumatic shifting. An orange digital number display will light up in the 3'o clock position of the tachometer. A nudge up on the Type-S embroidered leather shift knob will make your CL-S to shift up, and down to click down one gear... Too bad it is not possible to control the 1st to 2nd shift, which is computer controlled. But from 2nd gear up to fifth, it will not upshift until you do so. The manual CL-S will come with a smooth shifting 6-speed.

Stepping on the gas from a standstill will make you feel this is a very powerful car. 232 lb-ft of torque at 3800RPM. Good low end torque, that is diminished a little bit by its rather hefty weight (3500lbs). Don't worry. When things get moving, you will notice the car's real ability.

The CL-S accelerates smoothly with a melodious, increasingly fierce I-mean-business growl. Variable Valve Timing enhances that burbly, throaty exhaust note along with the increasing feel of the V6's torque pushing your back further into the seat.

The CL-S engine has a dual intake plenum which will open a second passageway improving airflow into the engine (through complex air intake resonance), at about 3500RPM. Your will notice this as an increase in the engine's sound, and you will see the tach needle climb faster. Fly past 4800-4900RPM, and the VTEC hot camshaft kicks in, with the V6 now growling and begging to be revved even more, quite sounding like a Mustang V8. An intense rush of engine power continues to build up until 6900RPM. Kicking down on the SportShift, from 3rd to 2nd at about 50mph in the highway, will produce tremendous passing power and torque, that certainly left me impressed! It is so easy to rev this engine, without effort, up to the redline.

By that time, if you forgot to look at your speed, you will sure be making 80mph without an effort. You will have a big grin in your face, that will last for hours of driving.

Fuel economy is average at first 19MPG City / 29 MPG Hwy. When I first got the car, I would see myself refueling every 5 days, averaging 22MPG. I mostly do city driving.

However, I went to a local PepBoys and ordered a K&N Filtercharger  (P/N 33-2178 for the Type-S) for $52. The Type-S air intake is different from the CL Premium, keep that in mind. Man, what a difference it made! The engine growls deeper, you feel more the intake sound of the engine, as well as a noticeable increase (15%) in low end torque. You will feel the car launches faster than with the regular Acura air filter.

Fuel economy increased as well, about 20%. I know refill every 6-7 days. Worth the $50 for the K&N? You bet! More horsepower, more low end torque, and better fuel economy... It's a no brainer.

The CL-S SportShift version will come with what Acura calls Vehicle Stability Assist (VSA), which will compensate for wheelsping during hard launches, unsafe manuevers, and oversteer. It will attempt to correct your path, for example, when turning into a sharp turn on wet asphalt, and mashing the throttle while exiting the turn. The wheel will torque up (harden its turning feel) a little, and the VSA orange light will flicker, indicating that it is active and making corrections to your driving path. Of course, VSA is deactivated with a switch, which is to the right of the moonroof switch. The orange light will stay solid on when VSA is deactivated.

This car has solid brake discs on all 4 wheels. A car priced $30,000 should always have that.

The CL Type-S model comes with a stiffer, sportier suspension than that of the CL Premium.

Now for the styling. Front end styling is conservative, but nice. The 2003 model sports smoked headlamps, increasing the evil look in the CL's fascia comparing to the 2002 and 2001 models.

Xenon headlights, with bright illumination, does not really need fog or driving lamps, as they illuminate the road superbly.

Appealing 17 inch 6-dual spoke rims. They look a bit small, 18 inch should look better for this car, as it will fill the wheel-well a bit more.

From behind, nicely shaped red-white taillamps, above large, oval shaped, chromed performance exhaust pipes. They sound wonderful, trust me. Even better in the Type-S model.

Amenities and accessories:
&gt;8way power adjustable driver seat, with walk in feature
&gt;4way power passenger seat with walk-feature
&gt;2 memory preset for driver's seat, and sideview mirror's positions
&gt;2-level heated front driver and passenger seats
&gt;Power tilting moonroof with sliding cover
&gt;Homelink(TM) garage door opener system
&gt;Heated, blue tinted sideview mirrors, with the passenger mirror that can automatically tilt down when "Reverse" is engaged
&gt;Automatically dimming rearview mirror, that will obscure when cars behind you have their lights on, and ambient light is low.
&gt;DVD based navigation (add around $2000+ to your price).

So, considering the base price for the CL Premium (MSRP $28,000) and the CL Type-S (MSRP $30,550), it is REALLY worth to plunk down the extra two grand to come up with a far better engine (225HP/212lb-ft of torque for the CL-P).

I would strongly recommend the Type-S over the CL-P.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<