DOC>
<DOCID> 7256 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Pontiac_Grand_Prix </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_45160173188 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my 2001 GTP 4 door sedan (black with gray "leather" interior in August of 2000, so I guess 14 months is long enough to have a solid opinion of the car. 

A quick summary - this is a great looking car that's a blast to drive, but it does have it's faults.  Am I glad I bought it?  Yes.  Would I buy it again?  Maybe, maybe not, because there are some great cars introduced in the past year in the same price range.  

In my opinion, if you're the type of person that considers the Accord or Camry to be alternatives to the GTP, do not buy it.  You'll be disappointed by the quality, and performance won't make up for the shortcomings.  If, on the other hand, you want muscle car performance in a practical sedan, and you don't mind the "Pontiac" atmosphere of the car, you definitely won't be let down.  In most cases, if you can even consider the GTP an alternative to other cars, buy it, because you're a "GTP" person.  When I was shopping, I kept coming back to the GTP over any other car, for no reason I could really tell.  I am a "GTP" person, but most other people aren't.

One web site summed it up the best when it called the GTP a "trailer park beauty queen".  It's got great qualities and is fun to drive, but it does lack a certain level of refinement.

For the most part, I have no regrets about buying this car.  It's been reliable in all weather, is fun to drive and comes with a ton of options.  Based on marketplace developments in the past year, however, I don't think I can recommend it to someone on the fence.  For the same price  or cheaper (my car stickered at $29,000 fully loaded), you can get a Suburu WRX ($24,000), Acura RSX Type S ($23,500), the new 240 HP Altima ($26,000), Maxima ($29,000), Audi A4 ($28-32,000), Acura 3.2 ($29,000) or Acura 3.2 Type S ($32,000), or even a BMW 3 series or Lexus IS/LS 300 just off lease.

All of the above offer equal or better performance without the tradeoff in practicality.  And none of the above have the quality problems commonly associated with American cars (although the BMW's are a little iffy).  

The GTP is probably the quintessential (only) American performance sedan.  It has no competitition as far as domestic brands are concerned, but if you expand your choices to the imports, the choice becomes much tougher, especially when considering the number of new performance sedans now offered in the marketplace.  The Grand Prix survives because some people are drawn to the GTP regardless of the other choices out there (I know I was).  Most people, however, will not find the build/material/finish quality high enough and want a car with a classier reputation.  No amount of performance will ever get them into a Pontiac.

Here are some other thoughts on the car:

Technical specs:

The GTP comes with GM's proven 3.8 liter v-6 engine, using ancient, but reliable, pushrod technology.  Most of the GTP fun comes from the Eaton type supercharger that adds a bunch of muscle.  The engine develops 240 horsepower and 280 lb/ft. of torque with a fairly even spread over the RPM range.  0-60 comes in about 6.7 seconds (which is pretty amazing for a car this heavy), and torque is more than ample at all speeds.  Torque, for those who don't know, equals the "kick in the pants" you feel when you get on the accelerator.  The engine is the GTP strongest point.  It's great fun to floor off the line, and it offers strong pull at all speeds.

Bells and whistles include the following (some of the things listed are options, but I haven't really seen any GTPs without them):

Cruise control, "Leather" seats (with power controls and heat for the driver), auto dimming rearview with compass and thermometer, 16 inch polished aluminum wheels, 8 speaker bose cd/stereo (although the head unit is the standard AC Delco used in most GMs) with steering wheel mounted controls, keyless entry, a free one year subscription to the OnStar safety and security package, dual zone climate control, Traction control, and the kicker option - the eyecue heads up display system.  

The HUD displays speed, radio, and gauge information on the windshield, meaning that the driver never has to look away from the road.  It's a little obtrusive at first, but once you're used to it, it's hard to drive without one.

My positive reactions.  Outstanding engine with decent mileage for the performance (I've been averaging 25-26 in mixed driving).  The heads up display system is a must for all cars.  The seats are quite comfortable over long drives.  It looks great with the polished aluminum wheels (this is the first car I've owned for over a year that I still love to wash and wax because it looks soooo good).  Although by no means a back road carver, it's still great fun to drive (especially when the pedal's all the way down.)  The Heads Up Display is a great idea that more companies should pick up.  The OnStar package provides an amazing feeling of security because you know you'll never be stranded or without help in an emergency.  Finally, the car is amazing practical for the level of performance you're given.  I can carry three golf bags in the trunk and fit 5 adults in reasonable comfort over a long drive.

The negative?  Well, it is American, so I do worry about the long term durability, and fit and finish could be better.  There are some minor interior creaks that will probably get worse with time, and the dash is 100% plastic with big bulbous knobs (in true GM style).  And it is a Pontiac, so no matter how many people I beat from a stoplight, or how shiny I can make the car, I still have to hang my head a little when valet parking in front of the club.


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<