DOC>
<DOCID> 7644 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Mitsubishi_Lancer </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_125258010244 </URL>
<TEXT>
            MY EXPERIENCE
I test-drove a 2003 Mitsubishi Lancer ES 5-speed at a local dealership. My test drive consisted of winding secondary roads and the freeway. 

PERFORMANCE
The Lancer's engine didn't stand out against its competitors, but neither did it have any notable drawbacks (a theme which pervades the Lancer, and hence my evaluation). Its acceleration times don't sound like anything special, usually quoted at a little over 9 seconds from 0-60 mph, but on the road the Lancer felt pleasantly responsive to throttle inputs. There was plenty of power for cruising around town and making quick getaways from stoplights, and the engine made a crisp, clean sound that was pleasing to the ears. When I wound up the engine on freeway on-ramps, it was clear that the Lancer didn't have all that much power in reserve, but in normal driving the Lancer's accelerative capabilities never felt anything less than perfectly adequate.    

TRANSMISSION/CLUTCH
The Lancer's transmission was, like its engine, neither fantastic nor disappointing. Its shifter had slightly long throws, but a smooth and light action that made changing gears effortless. The gates were well-defined, so I never missed a shift or was unsure which gear I was getting. The clutch was smooth and easy to modulate, as well--this isn't a car that takes lots of seat time to get used to. 

STEERING/HANDLING
On this point, the Lancer slips from "average" to "just a bit below." It's not a poor-handling car, but the best thing you can say about its road manners is that it's "easy to drive." On my test drive, the Lancer's handling was safe but unexceptional, with middling tire grip and considerable body lean in corners. Hard turns brought on awkward amounts of body movement and a tangible feeling that the skinny tires' grip level was being tested. The steering felt a bit slow for a small car, and it lacked road feel, which made the car seem a bit numb in twisty-road running. The steering also lacked on-center precision, requiring frequent little corrections when driving in a straight line. The brakes were strong, but they felt grabby and overboosted, with too-light pedal feel that made it easy to jerk the car in routine stops. Nothing about the Lancer's handling could be called "bad"--it's just that there's little fun to be had on back roads.    

RIDE
The Lancer fares better in this department. The slightly sloppy suspension was clearly calibrated to deliver a comfortable ride before sporty reflexes, and that pays off on rough roads. My test-drive route included some badly rutted pavement, and the Lancer soaked it up with little fuss and no harshness. It's not quite as soft-riding as a Corolla, and not as well-damped as a Civic, meaning that--surprise--it's not quite the best in class in this area either. But it's sure to please those who prioritize ride comfort in their small sedans.  

INTERIOR
If the Lancer has an outstanding strong point, this is it. The broad, sweeping dashboard and large glass area made the cabin feel airy and open. The seats were very comfortable, front and rear, and there was a surprising amount of room to stretch out--it felt like one of the roomier small sedans on the market. The driving position was excellent, with great visibility in all directions--it's one of those cars that make you feel at home very quickly. The materials might not be as high-quality as those in the Corolla and Civic, but the Lancer's accommodations certainly didn't look or feel cheap. The combination of comfort, mid-size space, and pleasing quality made the Lancer's cabin a very pleasant place to be. It's one of the best interiors in this price class. 

PRACTICALITY
The Lancer's practicality can hardly be faulted--it's got lots of space front and rear, easy access to all seating positions, and a surprisingly commodious trunk. The only significant drawback here was that the ES model I tested--the least expensive Lancer trim--cannot be had with a split-folding rear seat. To get that feature, you must move up to the Lancer LS or O-Z Rally Edition, both of which bring their own disadvantages (besides being more expensive). The LS is only available with an automatic transmission, which is a disappointment for manual-shifting fans such as myself. The alternative, the O-Z Rally Edition, is available with a manual but sports a faintly ridiculous body kit that apes the high-performance Lancer Evolution's rakish lines. This costume didn't look so silly before the Evolution came to market, but now that the Evo is here, the O-Z offers a mere fraction of that car's performance in a body that's nearly as flashy-looking. That seems a bit cheesy to me (on a side note, buyers seeking a cut-price junior Evolution should check out the Lancer Ralliart, which I haven't driven yet).   

RELIABILITY
Consumer Reports has no reliability data on the Lancer yet, so there's nothing conclusive I can say here. However, it's worth noting that Consumer Reports rates other Mitsubishi models Average and above, so there's probably a good chance that the Lancer will fare well in this area. 

OVERALL
The Lancer strikes me as the solid-B student of the budget-sedan class. It does everything reasonably well, but it never inspires superlatives: it's a nice little sedan, with decent road manners, offering pretty good value for the money. It's perfectly practical and adequate in every way, but at the same time, there's nothing special or unique about this car to set it apart from the competition. In most respects, the Lancer feels like a rough draft of the Civic or Corolla, with the same aseptic personality but a less-polished feel. While I must give the Lancer high marks for its general competence, it's almost impossible for me to get excited about the idea of putting one in my own driveway. But maybe you might think I'm being too hard on the Lancer for being "just adequate." If it does everything decently, why be so critical? I realize my evaluation may sound overly harsh, so don't get me wrong: the Lancer is a very competent little car. But the thing is, the best cars in its class offer the same basic competence plus a little something extra: more refinement, more sportiness, more luxury, whatever--they all go the extra mile in at least one category. The Lancer settles for all-around adequacy, and in the face of its tough and talented competitors, that's simply not enough to win me over. Still, if you're the practical type who simply sees your car as an appliance for the road, the Lancer is worthy of your attention. It's reliable, economical, and comfortable. It's safe, too, with excellent crash-test results. I certainly wouldn't discourage anyone from looking at the Lancer, as it's a sensible choice, but its lack of originality and enthusiasm mean that there's little reason to choose this car over its Honda, Toyota, and Mazda rivals. 


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<