DOC>
<DOCID> 7696 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Chevrolet_Tahoe </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-20A1-F661264-39525C89-prod5 </URL>
<TEXT>
            We purchased a new 1999 Tahoe in November of 1999 just days before the birth of our second child.  While never an SUV fan, I felt like I needed a larger vehicle for kid-carting, and kid-gear-carting, and for safety.  Having read all of the media hype about SUV's being &quot;dangerous&quot; to other vehicle drivers, I decided that I couldn't beat'em, so I'd join'em. I started out convinced that I needed a Ford Expedition, but upon test drive, decided that it had a definite &quot;truckish&quot; feel.  Thus I gave the Tahoe a spin. 

It was love at first drive. I felt like I was driving a full sized sedan, but could see the road better. I had been driving a Chrysler Concorde, which is a full size sedan, and this vehicle feels just as comfortable on the road.  The handling is great, and best of all there is room for 3 adults and 2 toddlers, in carseats, to all fit comfortably.  

The Pros:  This vehicle drives like a sedan. It turns well, holds the road, even on the curves in the mountains where I live, and brakes very securely.  It accelerates without hesitation, and has a very smooth ride. There is none of the &quot;bounce&quot; with this vehicle, that we felt when test driving the Expedition, and it definitely has a smoother ride than our older model Chevy Truck.  My husband performs all of the routine maintenance, as the engine is laid out nicely and and the filters and fluids are easy to reach. He changes the oil every 5000 miles, and checks the other fluids and belts at that time.  

The interior is roomy without feeling cavernous. We elected to get the cloth seats, and they wipe clean with basic upholstery cleaner. The numerous cup holders fit everything but the &quot;humongous&quot; size fast food cups.  The console between the front &quot;captain's chairs&quot;  is roomy enough for CDs, and lots of happy meal toys.  The map pockets behind the front seats hold books, baby wipes, diapers etc, very neatly.  The overhead console (optional) holds garage door opener, shades, cds- in 3 different compartments.  

The vehicle is equipped with 3 plug ins which we use to play a small TV/VCR combo while on road trips with the kids.  A 9 inch set fits perfectly between the seats, resting on the console, with no wiggling, although, my husband does now strap it down with 2 large bungee straps, or a suitcase belt, as a fellow epinionator pointed out, you don't want large items flying around the car in case of an accident.  This is a godsend when traveling to Grandmas with toddlers. 

The seats adjust comfortably, and even my 6 ft tall father in law has no complaints about leg room and comfort. The front seats have arm rests and the driver's seat does have automatic adjustment settings for the leg room, back support and height.  The seat belts have a locking mechanism for installing carseats, which makes a locking clip unnecessary. You install the seat snugly, pull the seat belt out all the way, and let it slowly back in, hearing a &quot;ratcheting&quot; sound.  This locks the seat belt, thus alleviating the need for a locking clip.  Obviously I do recommend that you follow your seat manufacturer's instructions and the User's Manual for the vehicle when installing the seat.  

The back cargo area can fit more baby gear than a Babies R Us showroom, and then some.  The vehicle comes with a cargo net, which we have not used. We do find that groceries tend to roll around if not pushed against something, usually the stroller. The tools for tire change store nicely in side compartments and the spare is underneath the vehicle.  

I would say that running boards are a must. I use them to get in and out of the vehicle and to rest my foot on when putting a child into the carseat.  My 3 year old can easily get in and out of this SUV with the running boards, also.  I do not feel like I am climbing into a truck with the running boards on. (Our second vehicle is a full size truck, so I am familiar with truck climbing).  

We elected to have the &quot;barn&quot; style doors, which I am very pleased with.  They do have a &quot;blindspot&quot; in the middle, but all Tahoes have outside mirrors on both sides of the truck, which I tend to use more than the rear view mirror, anyway.  The barn doors make grocery loading and unloading very convenient.  It is also convenient when we use the back area as a &quot;potty&quot; for the 3 year old, as we can close the doors behind our backs, give her a little privacy on her little potty, yet supervise her too. (I know a little strange, but better than the WalMart bathrooms, right?)  I can lift the double stroller into the cargo area easily, so  height is not a problem either.  

We tow our pet cows to shows in a 2 horse trailer, and the Tahoe handles it perfectly.  No drag on the transmission, no change in handling- you hardly realize that you have a trailer attached.  We did buy the optional towing package, and my husband had to hook up the hitch himself. But for towing a boat or animals, this vehicle is ready to go. We normally get about 19-21 MPG when driving in our small town, and about 22 MPG on the highway, however, when we tow, we drop down to about 16 MPG.  I do admit, I dread filling that tank up, and seeing how much it costs!  


Now the Cons:  There have been a few weird things go wrong:  The back door latch broke for no reason at about 6 months. The oil gaskets leaked and were repaired under warranty twice.  And the serpentine belt wore thin early, and again was covered under warranty (good thing that my husband knows to check that stuff).  The service at our dealer is horrendous.  We have to drive about 50 miles into Atlanta to get decent service (the joys of rural life). 

There is a weird &quot;thunk&quot; when the vehicle shifts from 1st to 2nd. Undiagnosible, of course, but rumored to be very comman in the Tahoe. Something to do with the weight of the vehicle, the transmission and the size of hill you are on.  I will update my opinion on this if the transmission goes out 2 miles after the warranty is up.  

Now for the Safety:  I knew that SUVs were like tanks. I know lots of people hate them for that reason. But when your entire life is in that vehicle (my 19 mos old and 3 1/2 yr old daughters ) you don't care what others think, you want to be the &quot;biggest one on the road&quot;. 

 I was in an accident last week, with my 3 year old in the car. We were both strapped in, and I came over a hill at about 35 mph, and saw a vehicle stopped about 200 ft. in front of me. The road was wet and I was on a down hill slide, with a ditch to my right. So I locked it down and prayed. The vehicle stayed exactly where I steered it.  Just to the right of the rear end of the car in front of me.  I didn't slide one inch.

  It slowed enough that my air bags didn't even need to deploy.  The lady in front of me was fine. My daughter didn't even know we'd had an accident- she asked me what the loud noise was! I felt a little soreness in my right shoulder, but that was it.  The car behind me is totalled. It hit me going 35, and following pretty close. The driver is okay, but the car is demolished, it was a little car.  My vehicle sustained about $1900.00 worth of damage- basically nothing when you consider the price of repairs now days.  

Do I love my Tahoe?  Any vehicle that takes the kind of road conditions that day, and an accident at 35 mph and turns it into a minor fender bender is my best friend.  I highly recommend the Tahoe as a family SUV.    
<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<