DOC>
<DOCID> 8613 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Honda_Odyssey </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_32910052996 </URL>
<TEXT>
            The Decision:

Last spring we went on a weekend trip with our two young children.  At the time we had a station wagon and thought we had lots of room.  By the time we packed clothes for 3 days for 2 adults, a 4 year old and a baby; added a large bag of diapers; a port-a-crib; a stroller; a backpack carrier; and a small cooler with bottled water and snacks for the 3 hour drive there was barely room for the 4 of us.  And we were planning two 10 to 16 day camping trips this summer.  On that trip we decided that it was time to start looking at mini-vans.

Our Requirements:

1.  Must hold 2 car seats, preferably in captain chairs so that the little darlings couldn't pull each other's hair while driving.

2.  Lots of cargo room for all the baby gear (how can one tiny little being need so much stuff??) and camping gear.

3.  Good gas mileage.

4.  Ability to pull our popup camper, about 1,000 pounds.

5.  Be within our budget.

Looking:

We figured that our requirement #5 would prevent us from buying either a Honda or Toyota and in the beginning process we didn't think that the Honda would meet requirement #4.  So initially the Honda wasn't on our list to test drive.  We had to be very picky about test driving because we had to install two car seats into the car during the process.

We first visited a Dodge dealership and found out that the only "deal" we could get was on the on the minivan on the lot.  And all were fully loaded with options that we didn't want or need and only the most expensive of the bunch had the towing package included.  But we liked the minivan and it was still top of our list.  I did not like the way it felt when test driving but my husband loved just about everything about the vehicle.

Our second stop was the Toyota dealership but after crawling in and about the Sienna, we quickly realized that it just didn't have enough cargo space for us.

Next door to the Toyota dealership was a Honda dealership.  I had a friend with an Odyssey and she loved it, so I talked my husband into going in to check it out.  There we found out that this minivan met all our requirements and that the cost was easily in the ballpark of the Caravan.  And we were pleasantly surprised to find out that the Odyssey had a larger towing capacity, a plus if we wanted to buy a larger camper it could easily pull it.

The problem was that they did not have one that we could test drive and I refused to consider a vehicle we could not drive before purchase.  The other problem was that the salesman said we could not get an Odyssey for about 3 months.

We came home and I got on the phone and called another Honda dealership and they did have an Odyssey that we could test drive but stated that there was a 4 month waiting list to get one.

The test drive sold us on the Odyssey.  It was smooth riding, easy handling and quiet inside. The seats were roomy and comfortable and the "magic" 3rd seat was great.  The 3rd seat will fold into the base of the minivan and give you and nice flat cargo area with it down and when it was in the seat position the dip in the minivan gave you a large amount of cargo space. 

Luck was on our side, someone who had previously ordered an Odyssey had canceled their order that morning and if we took their color choice then we could have one in 5-6 weeks.

We took a chance and went by the Dodge dealership for one more quick test drive of the Grand Caravan.  And tried to cut our best deal with the salesman.  He was able to come within $100 of the Odyssey price but not any lower than that.  The next morning we and were able to get the Odyssey that would be available in about 6 weeks.

Owning the van:

We love this minivan.  It drives like a car.  And when you are pulling the camper you don't even feel the additional weight.

We had had the van about a week when we went on a 10 day camping trip.  We loaded all the camping gear, food, all the baby gear and had enough room to take along the exersaucer for the baby and a tricycle for our 4 year old.

We have also been pleasantly surprised that the gas mileage has been better than anticipated, even while pulling the camper.

Since then we've been on another camping trip, this time taking the camper and going into a more hilly, mountainous area.  Once again, we've been extremely pleased with the capacity of the minivan.  Even the steepest grades that we were on, it didn't seem to slow down or make you feel like the camper was over burdening the engine ... or even causing a strain on it.

The Cons:

As much as we love this vehicle there are some drawbacks.  I think if we had had to wait 3-4 months, we might have gone with another vehicle.  

In addition, when we go on long trips, we like to listen to books on tape and the radio leaves a lot to be desired.

Between the driver and passenger seats there is a tray that folds up to hold drinks and other things.  While this is nice, it would be better to have a built in console with storage underneath instead.

But all my complains are very minor and there is nothing that would prevent me from making the same decision when purchasing a car again.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<