DOC>
<DOCID> 9763 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Isuzu_Rodeo </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_23642803844 </URL>
<TEXT>
            We found out last year that we were going to be blessed with our third child, and the first thing we did in celebration was go shopping for a "family vehicle".  We had a Nissan Sentra which we were happy with, but wanted something that would hold three children in back with breathing room, enough cargo space for our various needs, and a hauling package for our fish&ski boat.  What we found was the 1998 Isuzu Rodeo 4 cylinder.  This was a bit of an impulse buy.  The kind where you come home in it and THEN look up the reviews on it, not that it matters what they are by then.  I was encouraged, to begin with, by the assumption that the Rodeo was the same thing as a Honda Passport - a car that I knew was rated well.

It is a beautiful car.  Deep green with gray interior.  The back seats fold down to creat a large cargo space, but the vehicle isn't so big that it feels clunky and hard to maneuver.  We like the child safety locks in the back, the radio sounds fine, the windows are tinted and it had a bug shield and handy luggage rack.  I liked that the top half (window) of the back went up, and the door part (lower half) opened to the side, though it certainly would have been more convenient to have it open towards the left side, so that the driver can get out and get things without walking all the way around the open door.  But that isn't a huge problem.  It has a rear windshield wiper that I think comes in pretty handy.  The seatbelts are adjustable, and can be lowered and raised to fit a shorter or taller person somewhat.

For a four cylinder, this SUV goes pretty well.  It has average pickup, and we are able to pull our boat behind it without many problems.  It's a little sluggish up in the mountains, but we can't complain.  Never thought a 4 cylinder would do as good as this one has.  I believe the towing capacity is 4500.

On the down side (and there's a lot of stuff on this side...) the exterior metal is easily dented.  Ours shows hail damage where our other vehicles did not suffer any.  It has small dents in various areas where little things like branches or buggies dinged it.  The back glass does not lift all the way.  The air cylinders lift it maybe 30%, and then you have to manually lift it the rest.  That is disappointing.  

When we got our Rodeo home, we found some notes in with the other paperwork that the previous owners had left in the glove compartment.  The dealership had somehow neglected to find it and take it out.  It was a list of all the things that had been wrong with it while they owned it, and a lot of information about lemon laws, with the number for contacting the lemon law hotline highlighted.  You can imagine the irony.  We had owned it about three hours before realizing that buying it was a huge mistake.  The things listed by the previous owners had all been fixed, but we still knew that we had gotten a raw deal.  

About three months after buying the Rodeo, the air conditioner went out.  We strongly suspect that the good ole dealership just filled it up with fresh juice before selling it to us.  There is no telling if the leak occured before we bought it, or after.  The car was only two years old, though, and this should not have happened.

We have had our car about a year now, and just got it out of the shop for major repairs.  We were driving along on the road when all of a sudden the car stopped going.  Turns out that the timing belt had broken due to defective pulleys.  After two weeks and $2300 we were able to pick our car up in working condition.  It seems okay now, but who knows when something else will happen.  Thankfully, we had thought to buy an extended warranty on it when we got it, and the warranty (not affiliated with Isuzu) covered all but $150 of it.  Still, we are NOT happy.  

Another thing we found out while trying to have this Rodeo repaired was that no one will work on Isuzus.  No one is familiar with them, and they don't want to bother.  We had to have it towed 50 miles to the nearest Isuzu dealership to be fixed.  Another annoyance.  Next time we buy a vehicle, we will keep that in mind.

Sooo...  here we are.  Would I recommend buying this car?  No.  I wish that we had never seen it sitting in the corner of that lot.  I wish that we had gone with our original plans and paid more for a Toyota or Honda.  Something that is rated well and a brand that we are familiar with and can trust.  

Hope this helps you out with your own car buying experience!  My advice - don't buy on impulse!  If the car isn't there the next day when you go back (odds are you won't go back - that's why the salesman is pushing it so hard) then it wasn't meant to be anyway.  Find out WHAT you want FIRST.  And THEN go looking for it.  :-)

***UPDATE***

We recently found out that our 1998 Rodeo was being recalled for a timing belt problem.  The timing belt was being exposed to dirt and water, which made it brittle and eventually caused it to break.  Ours broke (before the recall) and bend the pulleys, causing the $2,300 problem I described above.  Isuzu is fixing it, and the good news is, they are paying for the repairs we had to make the broken belt caused.  I feel a little better about things now, and I do enjoy our Rodeo, but still would not recommend it.  

            
<label> No
<rating>  1.0

</DOC>
<