DOC>
<DOCID> 976 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Toyota_Matrix </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_58501729924 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I just bought this car two days ago. I've been driving it all weekend, and I must say I'm impressed. The model I bought was the XR, with a lot of the extra options like sunroof, different wheels, security system, 4-wheel drive, etc. (Which accounts for the higher price we bought it for.)


<b>The Exterior</b>

The color we got was "Cosmic Blue", which is sort of a lighter metallic blue color. It's the same color you see in all the commercials on TV. As written about in the other reviews, it's hard to describe what this car looks like. It's not really a station wagon, but it's also not an SUV. The outside will remind you more of a station wagon, I think, but the inside makes you feel like you're driving an SUV. The side doors are also very big. I live in Oregon, so the fog lights actually help quite a bit. I had several chances to drive in the fog over the weekend, and I'm definitely glad I had them.

As a I mentioned in the cons, sometimes the hatch doesn't close all the way the first time. I'm still getting used to the exact amount of push needed to close it fully, but this is a minor detail.


<b>The Interior</b>

The interior, as I mentioned, makes you feel like you're driving an SUV. The roof is much higher than you would expect, and this is a lot of what makes it feel so spacious inside. The back seats have plenty of room for larger people to sit. When it says it seats 5, it does mean that. The center seat even has an over-the-shoulder seat belt.

The controls up front are well placed and easy to reach. I found that after only a couple hours of driving, it was very easy to manipulate many of the controls without having to take my eyes off the road, merely using my peripheral vision.

The gear shift is placed not between the front seats, but rather almost as part of the controls in the center. It took a minute to get used to reaching forward that much to get to it, but after a while it actually is nicer having it that way. It leaves plenty of room for the cup-holders and various storage nooks between the two front seats. As one reviewer mentioned, when the car is in park, it's harder to get to the climate controls, but that's not a problem for me, since when the car is in park the car is usually off and I have no need for the climate controls.

In the model we bought, it came with power doors, windows, mirrors, etc. No problems at all with them. The mirror controls are well-placed and easy to adjust by feel alone while driving.

All the controls have a red glow to them, which took a little bit to get used to, but I like a lot now.

The bank of dials behind the steering wheel I feel could use some better design, though. First of all, the speedometer shows speed markings in increments of twenty, instead of increments of ten. (0, 20, 40, 60, etc., instead of 0, 10, 20, 30, etc.) This takes a bit of getting used to. One thing I miss from my old Volvo is the clock in the bank of dials. I'm used to looking right next to my speedometer to see the time, but it's not there in this car. (This is not a big issue, but I do miss it.) One thing that looks cool but can get distracting is the chrome edging on the bank of dials. When driving at night, lights reflect off them and in my peripheral vision it looks like an indicator light has gone on. Several times I looked down to see what light came on only to see nothing and realize it was a reflection off the chrome.

I felt this car had a slightly larger blind spot than my old Volvo sedan. Then again, this having a station wagon-like design to it, there is more "interior" in the way than with a sedan. I quickly got used to this, however, and it's not no problem at all.

The driver's seat has a thing you can use on the side to set the height of the seat, which is where the high roof came in handy. I was able to raise the seat to its highest height and I still had plenty of room between my head and the ceiling.

We got the "dark gray" interior, and I love the material. I have to tell you, the material is not the same as what's in the standard model. The dark gray material in the XR has a whole different feel to it. It doesn't feel like regular fabric. It grips well, but doesn't have the "clothy" feeling to it. At the same time, it's doesn't have a plasticy feel to it. You really should just go to a dealership and see what I mean. It's nice.

The cruise control worked very well. No complaints. Okay, well, one complaint. On the bank of dials, it has an indicator light to show you that cruise control is <i>enabled</i> but no indicator light to tell you whether it is <i>engaged</i>. I don't live near the city, so I have long stretches of driving that the cruise control is just perfect for.

Every seat in the car folds down except for the driver seat. This is very very handy for transporting large things. The flat bed that's created when the seats are folded down is made of hard plastic, and not cloth, so it's easy to get things in and out of. There are also runners with tie-holes in them to allow you to tie things down so they don't move around.

I was surprised to find that this car had not 1, not 2, but 3 outlets in it. 2 of them are standard cigarette lighter outlets, but the third one is your standard AC two-prong outlet. The first cigarette outlet is exactly where you'd expect it. But the second one I didn't find until I was browsing through the manual. It's inside the storage box that's between the two front seats. Why it's in such a hidden-away place, I don't know. I guess it would be useful for putting your phone charger in there, where it's out of the way. Tonight we drove back home and I had my laptop plugged in to the AC two-prong outlet. Very very cool to be able to do this. No special converters needed, just plug it in. I will be making a lot of use of this feature.

Cup-holders. What a needed feature. I seriously can say the thing I looked forward to most about this car was the fact that it had cup-holders that work. Not only does it have two in the front, but there are two in the back as well. This is very handy, as we frequently have four people in the car and stop at a drive-thru. The cup holders in the back fold up and hide away, which was nice.

Throughout the interior are little hide-away storage compartments, which is good for keeping the car free of clutter.

The steering wheel was a bit smaller than I'm used to, but I actually like it. The design is the steering wheel is supposed to somewhat emulate that of a race-car, and I know what they mean. There were times I really did feel like I was holding a race-car steering wheel. The turning radius on it is incredible too. You can turn on a dime with this thing. I had some tight spots to turn around in and I had no problems at all. The also like the feel of the wheel with how it turns. Some cars I've driven with power steering have a sort of "loose" feel to them, and if you spin the wheel the wheel gets some momentum and you end up turning a little more than you want or expect. None of that with this car. It's so incredibly easy to turn the wheel, but it's not loose and stops the instant you stop.

Overall, I love the inside of this car. It's just a nice experience to drive in it. Our friends said the back seat was one of the most comfortable back seats they have ever sat in. There are tons of features in it, but not so many that it feels like you're overwhelmed by it all, as is the case with some newer cars.


<b>The Engine</b>

Now, first off let me say I'm not an engine buff. I don't know a lot about engine specs and all the technical details. I'll just tell you what it's like to drive the durn thing.

We got the 4-wheel drive model. It accelerates well, though sometimes you can feel it pushing to get the speed up. My previous car was a 1989 Volvo Sedan, and it had great acceleration. This car feels about the same way in terms of acceleration, only a bit better. It handles hills quite well. I'm able to keep an even speed without effort even on very large, long hills. I'd say it needs a bit more engine power, just because there are those times you can feel it really pushing to give you the power you need. However, for city driving, and most of the long stretches of driving I do, it does a great job. Basically, I am very happy with its engine power and am not complaining. If I was really into cars, engines, etc. I would probably feel it needs more oomph. But for me, the average driver, it's does absolutely just fine.

I did a fair amount of city driving and highway driving over the weekend and my average gas mileage was between 28-30 miles per gallon.

This car brakes very well. Several people who rode with me exclaimed how smooth the braking was.


<b>Conclusion</b>

This car was definitely a good buy. The features are just great. Many things about it were really thought through well before being implemented. Granted, there are a few things I'd change, but the list is small. The car is also in the Corolla line, which has a really good record and is reassuring. I felt like I bought a good, safe car, but at the same time it just has all those sporty things you would love to have, but don't usually find in your average "good, safe car".
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<