DOC>
<DOCID> 10751 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Saab_9_5 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_93328084612 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I recently test drove the 2003 Saab 9-5. The car is wonderfully built machine. It is not only one of the safest cars I have been in, but also one of the most fun and comfortable to drive. Everything about this car is well engineered by the people at Saab. I have almost no problems with it and I see good things for Saab in the future. 

The dealership gave me an automatic Saab 9-5 Aero. The car is a breeze to drive. The second I touched the gas the car went flying. It has very smooth acceleration and plenty of zip to go as fast as you want. The car comes with a 2.3L, 250 horse power engine. This engine is much more than the car needs and really surprised me on the highway. I was able to accelerate more than sufficiently to meet the speed of the highway traffic when I entered the highway. This meant that I was able to more safely travel at a higher speed. 

I also found the engine to be a lot of fun on the local roads. I was able to drive the car a little faster than normal around curves and through straight-aways. The pedal was begging to touch the floor the whole time. I had to restrain myself from driving to quickly so as not to reach an unsafe speed. Luckily, the good people at Saab have a solution for this temptation. They have cleverly placed a speed limit warning in the car. You can set the speed as desired and have the car warn you when you exceed this limit. This prevents those unfortunate conversations with police officers that we all wish to avoid. 

The handling on the car was impeccable. I was able to follow every curve in the road even at the occasionally high speed I reached. The car comes with a traction control system, which, in a way, I was both glad to have not tried and sorry that I did not get a chance to see it in action. Billed as a safe car, I wanted to see what the car would do when brought into a dangerous situation. Unfortunately for this interest, my drive took place on a sunny clear afternoon. I did not even drive through sand or anything else which may have caused the car to slip and consequently shine. 

Once you get up to speed, you eventually have to slow down. The 9-5 aero and arc are both equipped with better brakes than in the past for more efficient and smoother stopping. I was able to experience this part of the car. On a lonely road I tested how quickly I could slow down. The car decelerated faster than I thought it would be able to but I was surprised that there was no jolt as there often is when cars are stopped suddenly. Because of my non-emergency braking pressure, the car itself regulated the curve at which we slowed down. I was very impressed by Saabs ability to engineer such an intelligent braking system. Although I did not experience an emergency stop in the car, based on its non-emergency performance, I would say that it would be admirable in its abilities to stop safely when very necessary. 

The Saabs have been restyled in the last few years. Anyone who has seen the picture of these cars next to the fighter jets they are modeled after will immediately see a strong resemblance. These cars have a sleek look and seem like they are flying down the road from the inside and from the outside. The new lines of the car give it a great look. It is very sleek no matter what model you get it in. The styling is largely the same on the 3 and 5 except that the 5 is about one foot larger than the 3. This means there is more overall room and stability in the 9-5. 

The inside of these cars is fantastic. They have a number of refinements that makes these cars a pleasure to drive. Although I did not get to experience it during my daytime drive, the console has the ability to dim during the night so that it is not distracting. Only pertinent information is visible and if something becomes important, the car will illuminate that information. The car also has dual-climate control to suit the temperature needs of both you and your passenger. One of the nicest features of this car, and one that I can really appreciate, is that Saab not only puts memory into the seats, but also links that to the mirrors. I often get in a car and drive without mirrors because I do not feel like adjusting them. Now they are automatically adjusted for me and every driver of the car can be that much safer because of their ability to use the mirrors. The car also has a special feature for when you get out. With the press of a button, the car will illuminate the path in front of it for 30 seconds. This should help avoid the treacherous crossing of the lawn or a little security in an unfamiliar area. 

The seats in this car are exceptionally comfortable. The aero comes with leather seats and they seemed to be molded to my posterior. I barely knew where I was when I first sat down. Later on, I checked the back seats as well. These too, were comfortable and comparable to the front seats. Saab did not skimp like some car companies do and only make the front comfortable. After my test drive, I left the front seat where it was when I was driving and I got in the back. I found there to be ample leg room for someone of my height (about 6&#146). I was very comfortable back there with plenty of room to spread out. Another nice thing about the back seats is that they are heated just as with the front seats. No longer do you have to feel bad about the kids suffering in the back seat since they can be just as warm as you and just as quickly. 

The sound in this car is comparable with other cars in its class. It comes with a 200 watt Harmon/Kardon sound system complete with nine speakers. I was not blown away by the sound the car could make but I did not expect to be. The sound was more than adequate though. I have no complaints about it at all. The speakers seemed to be well situated so that nothing in the sound was emphasized or de-emphasized and the levels were adjusted so that it was not too loud for some and not loud enough for others. With safety in mind, Saab mounted the controls to the audio on the steering wheel as well as on the radio itself. This is a feature on more and more cars lately but I have tried plenty without it. It is always nice to drive one that has this mark of ingenuity. 

There are some outside refinements on this car that merit mention. The windshield wipers on the car are rain sensing and will automatically adjust for the amount of rain. Although this is not a unique feature, I always like to see it on cars. The 9-5 also comes with a better system to clean your lights on those dirty winter roads. The car has a retractable high-powered washer to clean the lights when necessary. The car also has great protection from those outside. It has a three part security system to prevent theft. The alarm will activate if anyone tampers with any part of the car in any way, it has rolling unique key codes so that your remote signal cannot be copied, and it has extra secure locks on the trunk and doors to prevent physical harm and entry to your car. If by some chance an unwanted entrance takes place, the engine will not start. It can only be started with the exact key the driver has and the correct signal code. 

The car also comes with a number of safety features not seen on other cars. There are both front and side impact air bags. These airbags are two part air bags that can deploy at a range of pressures depending on the position of the passenger and the impact of the car. Even the rear seat has its own special protection. It has a special system to prevent injury from items in the trunk. This is to protect rear passengers in case the car is hit from the back. There are also the standard crumple zones, on-star instant response, and a 3-year warranty.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<