DOC>
<DOCID> 10802 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/Fuji_Film_43860714_552216 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_12047781508 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I got this camera after seeing a friends Canon Elph digital.  I was pretty impressed with it, and decided it was time for a new gadget.  It seemed like the Fuji was the only product that could be closely compared to the Elph.

The Fuji is a bit taller than the Elph, but it has a larger and brighter display.  Both should fit in any pocket.

The reason I opted for the Fuji, was that it looked slicker, had higher resolution, shot videos (not just stills), and played MP3.  It was also about $130 more than the Elph.

16Meg SmartMedia:
With the camera at home, I started to play with it.  At first, I was upset about the 16Meg ram card, thinking I would need to buy one right away.  But, what I hadn't expected was the picture preview feature working so well.

Here's the scoop:  If you've ever shot a roll of 36-exposure film, and gotten only 4 good pictures, then with the Fuji you can tell if they are good right away, and just discard them.  So, the 16-meg card turns out to be pretty good.  I have not however tried taking it out all day for a full days picturing taking yet.

At the highest resolution, I believe you can get about 9 shots on the card (thats the equivalent of about two rolls of film for me ;) ).  If you get the bigger 64M card (about $90), then you get 36 shots.  Bump down to a lower resolution and 64M card, we are talking hundreds of pictures.  of course, you can download the pictures to your PC and reuse the card again.

Macro:
I was pleasantly suprised with the Macro abilities.  I took a picture of a quarter (metalic surface!) from about 1.5" away.  When sent to my PC, I could get the letter 'Q' on the coin to occupy more than half my screen and I could see all the nicks and scratches.  Very cool.  Up close, the flash was overpowering for most images, but placing a piece of tissue paper over the flash worked well (this is also good to reduce red-eye in normal cameras).

Zoom:
At first, I thought I would hate this, because at it's highest resolution, the zoom doesn't work.  At the low to medium resolution, you can zoom in and out.  The camera only has a digital zoom, no optical, so I guess that might explain it.  I got over this however pretty quickly, as my shots came out great.

Flash:
This is the weak point for me.  The flash seems pretty limited.  I think it specifies an 8' limit.  On most of the pictures of people, the person is exposed great, but the baclground is almost always dark.  If you like this effect, then great, but it certainly screams out to the viewer of the picture "FLASH SHOT!"  Also, red-eye is noticable sometimes.

Resoution:
This is what really got me.  And, turns out may be a problem in the long run.  The Fuji has a max resolution of 2400 X 1800.  Now, what I found out was that this seems to be a double-edge sword.  I had taken pictures at the highest resolution, and printed out several in 8x10" prints on an HP PhotoSmart printer (another review coming soon).

These prints were great.  I have one hanging by my desk now.  But, I later went to print the same photo, on the same paper, for 5x7 pictures, and I noticed some more noticable grainyness in the shadows.  I'm guessing that because the image might need to be compressed to be printed in that size, that there is a loss of quality.

This just re-inforces something I always knew:  Scan (or shoot) for the intended output.  Manipulating the image after seems to sometimes introduce loss of quality, even when shrinking the image down.  I will still want to play with this, and test my printing software.

Other Stuff:
I played with the video feature of the camera, and it works well.  I don't however see much use personally, until I get a larger SmartMedia card.  Also, the MP3 player is a nice add-on but I doubt I will use it, as I ride a motorcycle and it's too hard trying to get earphones under a helmet. (When I don't wear a helmet, I usually have a stereo nearby).

All in all, I really like this camera.  If the flash were stringer, I would rate it as perfect.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<