DOC>
<DOCID> 11321 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/Concord_Camera_EyeQ_3X_SLR_Zoom_Digital_Camera__Camera_EYEQ_3X </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_64603000452 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I have been keeping an eye on digital cameras for the past 3 months or so. I wanted to spend around $50 a mega pixel. I have been tempted on many occasions to buy $40-$50 cameras in Wal-Mart and K-Mart that advertised 640x480 resolution. I also flirted with the idea of buying various models of 2.0+ mega pixel cameras at places such as Circuit City and Best Buy costing $150 and up. The other day while browsing at digital cameras at Wal-Mart the Concord EyeQ caught my eye. After some debate with my girlfriend and an unsuccessful attempt at having a key made, I went back and purchased the Concord EyeQ.

The first thing that caught my eye about the EyeQ was its size. It is a very compact camera. It is about wallet sized or that of about a half inch thick slightly oversized credit card. The second thing that got my attention was the price marked at $59.88. When I first spotted the camera I made a joke to my girlfriend that it was the perfect camera. When we picked it up and started reading some of the specifications we started to really believe it was a good deal.

There were a few factors that played roles in the purchase of the camera. First, as mentioned earlier, were size and price. Also important was resolution. It was advertised on its packaging as being a one mega pixel camera and considering the stated 1280x960 resolution, it is. There was a footnote on the one mega pixel claim that stated which standard that was measured in, which made me think questionably about it. When viewing pictures in superfine mode, they are displayed on the screen as 640x480 resolution. So I figure I am not as savvy of digital cameras as I thought. Another nice feature and very important was an automatic flash. I noticed while shopping for a decent digital camera, the thing most often not found in lower priced model was a flash. I really wanted the ability to take indoor and outdoor pictures without needing an external flash. A big feature of the EyeQ is the 3X optical zoom. I thought it was most unusual for a low dollar digital camera to have an actual moving lens instead of a digital zoom. I mean hey, it's easy enough to digitally zoom into pictures in photo editing software, optical zooms really do get you closer to your subject. The final feature that really put this camera over the top in the purchasing decision was the preview screen built into the viewer. I saw very few low budget digital cameras with the ability to view pictures without having to hook up to a computer.

The only cons that played into the purchasing decision were the inability to create video files and act as a web cam. They were defiantly secondary uses for me and I do not miss them much at all.

After purchasing the camera we had it opened up in the car on the ride back to my apartment to play with it. We were immediately surprised to find that it came with a carrying case and an USB cable (it also came with the battery, but that was something we noted before we bought it). I was really surprised about the USB cable because just a month or so earlier I had gotten a scanner and spent way too much time looking for an USB cable for under $10. Very shortly into the ride my girlfriend was snapping off pictures and commenting on the way they looked through the viewfinder preview.

When we got home I got my first chance to play with it. The controls are simple and well laid out. I felt the only drawback upon first using the camera was the pause between pushing the shutter button and the picture actually being taken. This accounted for a few early pictures of the floor. The pause would not be so much a problem except that after the shutter button is pressed, the viewfinder goes black. This could be a major set back for taking pictures of moving objects. I figure it will be interesting to try to use the camera for one of my main reasons for wanting a digital camera in the first place which was to get some cheap action shots at SCCA autocross events.

After using the camera for a while longer there were a few things I would change about it. First and most annoying is the lack of a lens cover. I find the lens to be in a place that I am just compelled to place my finger, especially when connecting the USB cable. Another less annoying trait is the camera's insistence on displaying a preview of your picture after it is taken. I like being able to look at the images without needing a computer, but seeing the preview after each one seems unnecessary and prevents you from taking many quick successive pictures. They last complaint I have of the camera is its unusually slow memory deletion. It is able to open pictures quite quickly, but seems to take unnecessarily long to erase its memory to allow for more pictures to be taken.

Picture quality seems to be much more then I would expect from a $65 dollar camera. I knew going into the purchase that I wouldn't get magazine quality photos and sure enough, they weren't. But, I find the quality good enough to use this camera on a regular basis for fun or work pictures. I mean, if I want a good picture of something to show the grandkids many years down the road, I'll use a 35mm. But for pictures such as step-by-step home remodeling or for reference pictures of removing a cars motor, I'll reach for my EyeQ.

Overall I am exceptionally happy and impressed with this camera. When it comes down to value per dollar I think it is hard to beat. Another plus of its low cost is that I can leave it in a glove box or lay around the garage without being paranoid of it getting destroyed as I would with a $200+ digital camera. I would recommend this to anyone that is interested in having the ability to take quick snapshots and email them around without wanting to make a huge investment in an unnecessarily big dollar camera.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<