DOC>
<DOCID> 11387 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Dodge_Grand_Caravan </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_110878822020 </URL>
<TEXT>
            In August of 1999 we decided that if we were going to have children we would need a minivan.  Knowing that Chrysler had the best selling models we decide to mainly focus on them.  OK lots of people but SUV's but what is the point of having 4 wheel drive if you never use it?  Also we were not into having a vehicle as a status symbol so we could pay higher insurance and fuel rates.  We test drove a near top of the line used Ford Windstar(1998) and REALLY didn't like the road noise it produced.  Later we went to a local Dodge dealer and test drove the Caravan.  The short version has an optional 2.5 litre 4 cylinder that just doesn't have enough pep, not to mention the fact that they don't tend to last as long a a V-6.  This short version has almost no leg room for people to ride in the rearmost seat.  If you slide the rear seat forward to add storage to the rear of the van your legroom goes to zero unless you are an infant.  Not a good option if you are going to load that van down.  Also available are a 3,0 litre a 3.3 dual fuel engine(it can run on straight ethanol) and a peppy 3.8 litre, all v-6 engines.  All three have decent power but we ended up with the 3.3 because it had the package we wanted in a minivan, tinted windows, roof rack, cd player, folding rear seat, power door locks and power windows.  The only service we have had other than regular oil changes is one warranty repair on the clock spring in the steering wheel.  It was making a clicking sound when you turned the wheel.  You can look up all the factory recalls by doing a search on each model in any search engine.  The seats are extremely comfortable and the field of vision is exceptional.  The van handles like a car and has sleek modern styling.  If you are a do it yourself type of guy like me you will not have fun changing the spark plugs as the entire fuel plenum has to be removed to get to the rear plugs.  When you replace it you must put a new gasket on.  The sound system is great even if you don't get the premium version.  We usually get about 280 miles to a tank of gas(18 MPG).  A better set of tires or the 15 inch version would probably cut out much of the road noise.  You can always get the vehicle undercoated to reduce this as well.  The only other problem I have had is the drivers side widow came off the track due to the use of plastic pulleys in the lift system.  I was able to repair it myself, but if you don't work on cars you probably wouldn't want to try.  The lift motor retails for 185.00 at the dealer and 100.00 at aftermarket stores.  Neither comes with the actual gearmotor head which the cables actually wrap around to lift and lower the window.  So if your gearhead breaks(it is plastic)you have to get one of those as well.  The 3.3 liter v-6 has plenty of pep to zip around in traffic and has very responsive rack and pinion steering.  I have never had sway problems like you get with full sized vans.  The OEM brake pads failed at 28k miles and I replaced them with a higher quality pad that should last longer.  Overall the braking system performs well, but I would prefer rear disc brakes to get even better stopping power.  I have never had them lock up on me even though this model doesn't have anti-lock brakes.  My biggest concern is that the front disc brakes use phenolic pistons which are notorious for sticking over time. If they stick, one side of the brake system will fail long before the other causing the vehicle to need new calipers which should always be replaced in pairs.  If you have to replace them get steel piston calipers they will last much longer. The instrument cluster is very easy to read, and all of the controls are such that if you got in the vehicle for the first time you would easily be able to find and use them.  I especially like the fact that the cruise control system is mounted on the steering wheel giving the driver one button control of acceleration and deceleration.  There are plenty of cupholders for every rider and an extra 12 volt power outlet in the rear that makes it easy to plug in a cooler or TV or any other 12 volt accessory. I have always been amazed at how much cargo room there is if you remove just the rear seat, and yes if you are a full grown adult you can sit back there in comfort. Okay enough rambling overall this is a good van and I would buy another one in the future.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<