DOC>
<DOCID> 11822 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1996_Ford_Taurus_Sedan </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_44281794180 </URL>
<TEXT>
            We love Ford. We've always owned Fords except for two times and both of those times, I lived to regret it. We needed an affordable family car, something that was going to be dependable and comfortable for a family of four. I saw and fell in love with the 96 Ford Taurus. It had a lot of extras on it like air conditioning, electric windows, electrical seats (rather than having to manually adjust them), a nice stereo system, cruise control, and it was very roomy. It also has six seat belts which I consider a great thing. I can not only drive my children in my car but friend's as well because the car is roomy enough to support six passengers. It has air bags in front. 

The way that I know a car is a good car is I look around me when I drive. What does this mean? I can't afford to buy a new car. I can't drop fifteen thousand dollars on a newer car. I can't even afford more than six thousand because the payments would be too expensive. I pay attention to the older cars on the road to see what's still out there running. Notice you won't see many cars like the Pinto, the Fiero (had one and they are awful), and who's seen an MR2 lately??? My point exactly. I see a lot of Ford Taurus and Ford Tempos still on the road. That tells me that they are built to survive time. I felt secure buying an older Taurus because I've seen so many of them on the road. I also have called mechanics and asked them what kind of cars they see the least of. The Taurus was on the list of cars they don't have to repair much.

We bought our car at a dealership. We were lucky because we paid less than six thousand dollars for a car that had under twenty thousand miles on it and the interior was new looking. The Taurus drives smooth. It's quiet. It runs great. It feels like a new car while you drive it. I love the extras like the air conditioning. The car we bought has the tempature control for the air so we just set it at 74 degrees and it automatically keeps the car cool. We bought it thirteen months ago and I've only had to take it in once. That was because my husband was driving it on the freeway when we had a blowout in the front tire. The tire came apart and caused damage to the front brakes. We had to get those fixed. That's the only time we've had to take it in besides regular oil changes, tune ups, and yes, the smog check for the DMV.

Parts for the Taurus are affordable. I love that about the car. If something does go wrong, it won't cost me an arm and leg to have it fixed. Taurus parts are easy to find as well. You won't have to wait for a week for a part to come in that had to be specially ordered or hunted for. Insurance on it is great and affordable. Having it registered is pretty cheap. I love older cars for this reason. It saves you hundreds of dollars per year and the Taurus drives like it's new.

The seats are comfortable. I love driving the car. I can spend hours behind the wheel and I feel like I'm in my comfortable chair at home. I love how roomy it is. I have fit six people in my car and we weren't squished together like sardines. The middle belts in the front and back seat are lap belts but all four side seats are shoulder belts. I can fit a bulky car seat in the middle of the back seat and still fit two adults in the back comfortably. I really appreciate this. No knees in the back of my seat either when adults are in the back seats. There's enough space for leg room in the front and back of the car.

The trunk is large enough to fill my needs. I can do two week grocery shopping and fit everything in my trunk. It's large enough to fit in high chairs with a play pen and there's even room left over for toys, a large diaper bag, and my emergency case that I keep in the trunk. My car has a nice little button inside the car so I can open the trunk and the gas cap from inside the car. That comes in handy when I don't want to bother with keys. I also didn't have to invest in a gas cap lock for the car. You can only open the gas cap from the inside of the car.

The car has guts. What I mean by this is that the engine is powerful enough to act like a sports car when I need it to. I live in Southern California and our freeways are more like raceways at times. I can get on a freeway on ramp and with limited ramp, can still get to sixty five MPH in a matter of seconds to merge with traffic. The way that the car is designed is great for freeway driving because there aren't many blind spots and what few there are, my mirrors cover. It's short friendly and what I mean by this is that I'm a short woman and the dash is low enough that it's comfortable for me to drive it rather than straining forward to be able to see over the dash. My seats in my Taurus also are adjustable so not only can I move the seat back and forward but I can adjust it up and down. That's nice to have since I'm short and my husband isn't.

My car has the back doors child locks which are wonderful with a toddler. The locks are located in the opening of the door. It's just a flip of a switch and my toddler can't open the door from the interior of the car. The back windows only go down half way. Sometimes this is an annoying feature when I have adults in the car but it's a comfort when children are in the back seat.

My car also has the outer door locks with the code so if I lock my keys in the car I can punch in a code that will unlock the door. It's a great feature and I wish I could use it but unfortunately, the dealership lost the code and while I've contacted Ford to get around this, they haven't sent me the requested information on how to reset or get the door code. I'm still trying to get Ford to help me get a useable code so that in the event I do lock my keys in the car, I won't have to call AAA. I think if I were more persistant, I'd have it by now but the truth of the matter is, I haven't tried too hard to get this issue resolved due to lack of time and forgetting to follow up on my requests.

It's a great car. I love it. I'd buy another one if we need a third car in a heartbeat or if our second car needs put to pasture. (We own an 86' Ford Tempo as well). It's a comfortable car that runs terrific. I never drive it and worry about it breaking down on me. That's a big concern when you have small children in your car. We've had it for just over a year and buying it was pleasure for us and still is. 

 
      
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<