DOC>
<DOCID> 11892 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/509166_Agfa_ePhoto_780 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-4264-95E0713-386E5901-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Note: The below review was originally written on January 1, 2000 - scroll down further for an update on May 20, 2000 of this camera and my WONDERFUL experience with Agfa support! - And scroll even further for an update on November 3, 2001 (I'm still using the camera!)

The Agfa 780c digital camera is my introduction to the new world of digital photography.  After spending month after month going through various online and print reviews of digital cameras I decided to take the plunge and buy a 780c after receiving images taken from a netfriend's Agfa 1280.

The 780c cost less than $200, although I did have to pick up some additional items for it.  First, a set of Nickel Metal Hydride (NiMH) batteries and a charger.  This is an absolute must unless you have money to burn on alkaline batteries.  Do not get nickel cadmium (ni-cad) batteries!  You want NiMH batteries.  My set of 4 AA batteries and charger ran about $50.  Beware that NiMH hold different charge amounts, so do your research!  The Agfa's LCD viewer does eat up batteries, but then all digital camera viewers do.  I find battery usage, even with rechargables, to be more than adequate.

I also got a Delkin FlashPath Smart Disk Smart Card floppy adapter.  This cost around $70 and is a godsend to somebody who has an older computer with no extra serial ports.  Downloading from the camera via serial port is slow anyway, especially if you have taken a lot of images.  The Delkin adapter runs off two tiny lithium batteries that shut off after 5 minutes of non-use.  I just pop out the Smart Card from the camera, stick it in the Delkin, then put it in my floppy drive and drag/drop the images onto my hard drive.

Another expense was for an 8MB Smart Card.  The Agfa comes with a 2MB card, which is fine for a small number of high quality images.  If you want to take a lot of photos before downloading then a larger Smart Card is essential.  I paid $18 for my 8MB card, although at the time of this writing (December, 1999) you can pay more than double for the same thing if you don't shop smart.

One final expense is premium glossy photo paper for printing off and giving to your non-computer savvy relatives.  Buying at your local office supply store is like throwing money down a toilet.  Buy it online in bulk and you can get 100 sheets for the price of 15 or 20 at a big chain store.

I don't mean to review all the other stuff, but when you buy a digital camera it's good to know that these other expenses come up!

The Agfa 780c is very easy to use - just open the lens, point, and click!  There are options with regard to the flash that you'll need to understand, but the great thing is that as you experiment to discover what works best you're not going to have a considerable expense with film and developing!

The highest quality setting, 1024x768, is surprisingly excellent.  Even the two different 640x480 settings and the low quality 320x240 size produces good images.

With the LCD viewer you can preview the images and review/delete them afterwards.  Kids love this feature!

Agfa provides an adapter cord to plug it into the back of your VCR or TV.  This is also a great feature, although TVs will put the image slightly out of proportion.

In darker situations the flash may not "warm up" quickly enough to allow quick taking of pictures.  Sometimes it takes up to 10-15 seconds to get going.  With most daylight or office pictures the flash will engage within a couple of seconds.  It is equivalent at times to using a disposable camera and waiting for the flash to "warm up".  In daylight without the flash you can snap - snap - snap pictures every couple of seconds.

My wife and I got our Agfa right before our first baby was born.  It enabled relatives and friends living around the world to see our daughter just hours after the picture was taken.  I don't know how I'd live without my digital camera today!

At Christmas time I took over 90 images in the course of about two days.  Imagine the expense of taking those in 35mm!

The Agfa 780c has the features of what a $700-800 camera did in mid-to-late 1997.  Two years later it is selling for slightly under $200 if you look hard enough.  You could go out and buy the fanciest megapixel camera today, but in two years it will probably be selling for about $200.  If you're on a budget and want to get your feet wet with digital photography, the Agfa 780c is the camera for you.  Just remember that you might have a buy a few things on the side once your purchase is complete.

EPILOGUE (May 20, 2000):
The past couple of weeks I was waiting on a part from Agfa.  I had dropped the camera on cement from a height of about 4 feet and the battery door partially broke off.  Actually, it was just one of the plastic thingees that snaps into place.  I could still operate the camera but the batteries would lose contact because the door didn't shut totally.

I got the part from Agfa for free, under warranty.  It only took about a week to arrive.  I put the new battery door on and still had trouble with the batteries "seating" properly.  It was like they would jiggle around inside.  This disrupted my presets and put everything back at a default value for picture quality and flash options.

I called Agfa back the next day with my case number.  I explained that I had dropped the camera and now I was having troubles with the batteries seating properly.  The rep was very friendly and said he would call back in a day with an answer on what they could do for me.  Remember, it's been nearly 8 months since I bought the camera!

The next morning the rep called me back and said they are sending me a brand-new replacement Agfa 780c digital camera!  All they need is the serial number off of mine.  Once I get the camera I can transfer my batteries and Smart Card and then ship the old one back.

I know what some of you may be thinking: digital cameras break if you drop them on cement.  Well, all cameras do.  I must admit this was my mistake.  I didn't have the camera in the protective case, much less a proper camera bag.  Next time I'll know better and buy a camera bag.

But hey, I was still able to take pictures with the camera after I dropped it.  I just had to hold the camera very very very steady.

Anyway, I am very very happy with Agfa's customer service.  When I eventually buy a new megapixel camera in the next couple of years you can be sure what brand I will buy:  AGFA.

EPILOGUE: (November 3, 2001)

I'm still using the Agfa 780 and I'm still happy with it.  I may buy a new 3 or 4-megapixel digital camera in the next year, but this serves me well.

At the highest resolution it takes good images which I can upload to Shutterfly and print off as 4"x6" prints.  The max is only 0.8 megapixel, but I don't mind.

Despite using it a couple times a week for the past two years I'm still using the same NIMH batteries that I bought two years ago.

If you're looking for a cheap entry-level or cheap used digital camera, get your hands on an Agfa ePhoto 780.  After two years I'm still recommending it highly!

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<