DOC>
<DOCID> 1217 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1995_Toyota_MR2 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_61032664708 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I have had my 1995 NA MR2 for a couple of months now.  The car only has 40,000 miles on it, so it is still relatively new.  Sadly, 1995 is the last year for the MKII MR2 in the US.  During this model year only 356 or so were ever imported.

The car is a dream to drive, and cornering is usually limited by my fear rather than the car's ability.  Braking is excellent.  If you can ever rip yourself out of the driver's seat long enough to look at the car, you will be reminded how all of this driving passion is packaged in one of the best looking cars on the road.  I constantly have people asking if this is a new model for toyota even though the car hasn't been made for over 7 years.

Because it is a mid-engined car, you have to watch it.  I have got the back loose on several occasions, but the front remains glued to the road.  Too much braking or acceleration in a corner can make the back come out.  The back end comes back in line fairly easily though.  I've heard the 91-92 cars are a little less forgiving.  Once you learn this car's personality, it's cornering quirkyness can be easily controlled via the throttle for a delightfully fast ride through the twistiest of roads.

Before I purchased I had plans to modify the suspension but after driving it around, it feels perfect already.  It comes from the factory stiff and low.  Despite being low I can take speed bumps at whatever speed I want, and I wouldn't do anything to change that.

I have however since looked into mods to make the car go faster.  The torquey 130 hp 2.2 liter is supposed to get this car from 0 to 60 in 8.7 s.  The NA is not slow, but it is not necessarily fast either.  I have made a cold air intake (using 2" abs tubing and a k&n) which did help out at the higher rpms a bit and sounds nice'n throaty (-:.  What I have learned is that the 5SFE of the NA is an economy engine (I get about 25mpg on average) and if you really want to go fast, look into the turbo (2.0 liter 3SGTE) for 200 horses and a 0 to 60 of ~6.0 s.

As far as the rest of the car, the car fits like a glove.  The seats are very comfortable.  They wrap around you nicely to hold you in place during aggressive driving.  There is a nice place to rest your arm behind the shifter.  All the controls and gauges are laid out very nicely.  Despite being small, the car is very roomy inside and can accommodate tall drivers.  The fact that it actually has a trunk makes it attractive as compared to similar cars that don't.  

It all seems very reliable (no problems to 65k mi so far).  When I bought it the antenna and heater slider were already broken, but as far as engine/drivetrain components, they are there 100%.  A timing belt as routine maintenance cost me $500 at the dealer.  They said I was lucky as the turbo is $700.  If you buy this car you may want to learn how to do most of the maintenance yourself as it can be a little more expensive due to wierd access to some stuff.  Some maintenance is easy to do.  I can do my own oil change without lifting the car at all!  Many people who own them have told me the turbo cars have a few more problems such as blown head gaskets and turbos.

My car came with the cheap-o stereo, so that has been upgraded.  If you do this I recommend buying nice front speakers and disconnecting the rears.  To add to the fun you can fit a sub behind a seat.  I have nice fronts, rears, and a sub, and I have the rears turned down so low I am wishing I didn't waste my money.

If it is a concern, the car is a little loud.  This bothered me at first, but now I like it.  The engine revs really high due to the gearing (4k rpm @ 82).  Because it is right behind your head, it becomes loud over about 70 mph.  I've heard the turbo is geared higher, but louder because of the turbo spooling behind your head.

When looking for an MR2 keep these things in mind.  The '94-'95 cars have the best looks (cool tail lights and spoiler) ,93+ cars the best suspension.  Most people prefer the sunroof.  It is structurally stiffer, lighter, and the entire thing removes and clips in the front boot.  It can also pop up while you are driving.  The turbo is a little less reliable but a little more fun.  The turbo also requires premium gas.

TURBO UPDATE:
I have finally got some time behind the wheel of a turbo.  I drove a '95 turbo with no engine mods at the streets of willow racetrack.  The car was definitely faster than my NA.  It pushes your head back in the seat no matter how fast you are already going.  My car will only do that below 40 mph or so.  The turbo's power comes in smooth and at low rpm.  There is no sudden unexpected spike in power.  If you know how to drive a mid-engined car, the turbo is no harder to control than the NA despite what many people say.  The turbo also revs out about a thousand rpm more than my NA, which is great.  It does have a little less power at extremely low rpm, but as you near 3000 rpm it just begins to take off like a rocket.  If you drive this car like you should, there is no reason to get out of this extremely wide power band.  Other things to note are the bigger brakes (93+), some extra interior goodies, and 500 extra pounds for the turbo model.

Just to note, my NA was every bit as fun as the turbo at the track.  Any MR2 will make you feel like part of the car.  They all deliver excellent road feel and when driven properly respond to every command the way a sports car should.

SUSPENSION UPDATE:
I recently added a front TRD anti roll bar to my car.  After waiting 4 months to receive this from TRD, I was eager to test it out.  I went to a parking lot and spun out like crazy, then installed the bar and tried again.  The bar gives the car more neutral handling.  The back has been tamed a bit, but the car hasn't lost its charming tailhappy personality.  During faster driving, the bar allows you to throw on more power in the turns, and brake harder in the turns without the risk of spinning out (note, braking in a straight line is always best).  I loved the handling before, and now with my car being a little more civil and a little more sticky, a great thing just got better.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<