DOC>
<DOCID> 13732 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/2003_Nissan_Murano </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_122225331844 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I purchased the Murano SL AWD in April when it had been on the market for about 6 months.  I wanted a premium copper 2WD for better mpg but they could not find one so I didn't pay extra for the AWD.  It's better that way because I already used it in the snow storm and it had no problems.  The Murano SL AWD rides and handles very well.  Supposedly the SE handles better, but has a harsher ride. The brakes are fine and the CVT transmission is smooth.  I haven't noticed any torque steer.  There is sufficient power from the 3.5 liter engine, but don't expect to race a Subaru WRX and win!  Anyhow, the Murano is still pretty quick.  I have it for 8 months and 12,000 miles with no problems or rattles yet.

My driving consists of 30% highway/70% city with a continued average MPG of 16.6. I have gotten about 23.5 mpg on the highway at about 60 mph. Regarding the fuel economy computer, I would like to know what gas mileage I am getting real time, not average since the last time I reset it.  Most other trip computers give you this feature.

The seats are very comfortable.  There are 2 memory controls for the seats and mirrors that curiously can not be used while in motion (but the regular power seat and mirror controls and can be used).  The front cup holders are too big for most things and curiously (I like that word) do not have inserts or adapters for normal size beverages.  The back seat is very comfortable as well with a center armrest. It would have been a nice touch to put a storage compartment or cup holders in this arm rest.  Instead, the rear cup holders pop out of the rear of the center console.  This can happen just by hitting it with your foot.  Do not leave the flimsy back cup holders pulled out because it is by the floor and can be broken easily and cannot be replaced without buying a whole new console (from what I read on another forum).  So... keep it taped closed.  Kind of defeats the purpose.  Nissan.. are you reading this?
The front passenger seat does not fold forward flat like the PT Cruiser, new Malibu, etc, though it can recline fairly flat if you remove the headrest.  So if you want to bring home something 8 feet long, just get some towels or old blankets to protect the seats and dash.  The head restraints are well designed.

Now let's talk ergonomics.  Could be better.  The power window switch module placement was specified by someone with very short forearms.  When you go to roll down the front windows you keep pressing the door/window lock switches!
The stereo/CD changer is great... but you practically have to park to play with the radio because it is WAY too complicated and since everything on the screen is the same color amber it's sometimes hard to find the info you are looking for.  Why do manufacturers feel that when you spend more money..the ergonomics get more complicated?  BUT there ARE steering wheel controls which you can use to adjust volume and change stations.  But the remote tuning button will only cycle through one set of presets at a time so in order to go to the next set...your finger has to search through the 1000 buttons to push ABC presets button!  So your best bet is to make sure all your radio setting are to your liking before you drive off.  The wiper controls could be simplified too.  Nothing... and I mean nothing is as simple as the wiper control switch on my old '89 LeBaron.  You just turn it.  The more you turn it the faster they go!  But NOOOOO... today's cars have you moving and twisting the wiper controls in all different directions to get intermittent and regular speeds.

The cargo area is nice, having rear seats that fold forward with the flip of a lever.  You can stand bikes up in the back with the front wheel and seats off using a fork mount bracket. Storage areas abound and the door map pockets expand.  The hatch glass is fixed.

OK... well my big gripe is the rear view.  The tailgate window is smallish  and there is a sheet metal upsweep (ala AMC Gremlin) so backing up is not so easy.  You will have to use experience driving this car (as in all cars) to estimate where it ends because it's really hard to judge where it does end when parking it!  As far as I'm concerned the government should require backup sensors in all tall vehicles with limited rear visibility.

Summary:  simplify and improve the ergonomics, make a reverse sensor standard (or make the rear window come down lower), improve the fuel economy, and it will be perfect.

I would like to add one thing:  DO NOT push the hood closed with the palm of your hand!  The center of the hood will dent in.  I saw this at two dealerships before I bought mine.   If it doesn't close the first time..pick it up again and close harder with your fingertips on the edge of the hood.  Make sure any service guys are told this as well.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<