DOC>
<DOCID> 14040 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1995_Ford_Ranger </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-E48-1FD1DACF-39EB8357-prod3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I purchased my pickup when it was around three years old and it only had a little over 25,000 miles.  For $7000 bucks, this deal couldn't be beat, the truck was (and still is) in excellent condition, with the only scrapes on it inside the truck bed.  My Ranger is the XLT model, Current Electric Red #45, a 2.3L 4-cylinder engine, 5-speed manual transmission, 60/40 bench seat, CD Player (the previous owner had this installed after he bought it), and the whole California Package (chrome bumper, allow wheels, etc.).

The only thing I would have to say about having a 4-cylinder instead of a V6 is the get-up-and-go.  Acceleration once the truck gets up into 3rd gear and above is a little sluggish, but this is very common among small engine vehicles.  However, it does have a lot more power than the old high school car I drove, which was a 1985 Nissan Pulsar.

The interior of my Ranger is incredibly comfortable.  I've driven 3 hours in a single trip with it and I'm now up to 65,000 miles so I'm pretty experienced at sitting in the truck.  Space isn't all that bad either, especially for a standard sized cab, the only thing that I don't like about the inside is that the seats aren't able to recline (passenger) because there is no room behind the seat.

My brakes are still the ones that came with my truck too.  I've noticed that, at least on my vehicle, the brake system is very efficient, both at stopping fast without skidding and not burning down the brake pads too fast.  I have recently checked my brakes though and it looks like I may need to change them within the year.  Tires don't wear out all that fast either.  I changed all four of them just a few months ago for my 60,000 mile checkup.

Gas mileage could be better, but I get between the low and mid 20's, so that isn't too bad for a large 4-cylinder.  I only get about 320 miles per tank, which I thought was kind of strange because most vehicles I've used got around 400 miles per tank.  One of the good things about this truck is that it seems to have a smaller sized tank (which probably accounts for the low tank mileage), so filling it up from empty only takes a little over 20 bucks (although gas prices in California are starting to get a little ridiculous).

As far as other reviews go, I've read people have lots of little mechanical and electrical problems.  The only problems that I can agree with is that, yes, "the windshield wipers are possessed" (a review by eharri3), they do seem to kick on by themselves if there's a lot of humidity and/or you've used the wipers recently, but I find that a quick tap on the turn switch fixes that.  I've even talked to a ford dealership about that and they say that it was just one of those little things that seems to be common in Rangers of that year.  The other problem that I've had is that the dome light stays on for a LONG time.  However, I found out exactly why this was:  a sensor in the door latch that tells the computer when the door closes gets dirty from grease and dust and won't pop out when the latch closes.  It's VERY easy to clean and probably won't need replacing if you have some WD-40.  The door panel is easily removed to get at the sensor and if anyone wants me to email them on how to get their sensor cleaned, I'll gladly give as detailed a response as I can.

That's about all the major things I can think of about my truck.  Let me just finish by saying that I LOVE my truck and don't even like it when people touch the paint when there's dust on it :).  Please, if anyone wants me to update this opinion with progress on my truck, just drop me an email and I'll edit this to reflect any kind of info you guys want.

--------------------------------------
Update November 2002

I've gotten a few requests for updates so I figured I'd give a resolve to this epinion.  Sadly I sold my Ranger a few months ago.  No, it wasn't giving me trouble, I actually had no problem with it all.  I just seem to have some luck in coming by good deals for vehicles.  Hate to say it, but I didn't get myself another Ford (even though I would have liked to, but like I said, I have good luck finding good deals).

As for the Ranger, it had about 102,000 miles when I finally let go of it and it still ran just as smoothly, with just as much power as it did when I first bought it.  In all the time that I had my little pickup, never once did it give me even the slightest bit of trouble.  The only reason I let it go was because of the room.  I'm not quite married yet, but the small cabin size was just a large obstacle when trying to transport anything that probably shouldn't go in the truck bed (like family members....although...).

For all you current Ranger owners, I hope you have had and will have as good of an experience with your pickup as I did!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<