DOC>
<DOCID> 14088 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1994_Ford_Mustang </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_70739463812 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Let me start off by saying that ever since 1994 when Ford came out with the new SN95 body for the Mustang, I have had an 8 foot long poster of the sleek, rio red, Mustang GT on my wall.  This car was the car I have always wanted, and a while ago, I was able to finally purchase one.

I purchased a used, black with black/black/grey interior, 1994 Ford Mustang GT with 62k one owner miles, with the 5.0 litre engine, 215-220 horses, 5-speed, dual exhaust, factory option Mach 460 sound system with the two 85-watt amps in the trunk, all stock, no mods.  This car was exactly the car I wanted.  It had everything.  The Mach 460 system sounded great, the car handled pretty well, and it had power.  I was satisfied.

The Mach 460 sound system is an incredible system, especially for being a factory option and not some custom stereo.  The only complaint I can find with the system is perhaps the CD and cassette decks.  You must have both decks in working order to be able to use either of them.  I never use the cassette player, but if it were to bust, I would either have to get a stock replacement for it, or an entire new CD player just to be able to have a working CD player.  The reason for this is because the volume controls, along with the bass, treble, fade, etc. are all on the cassette deck, so you wouldn't be able to control any of that if the cassette deck broke.  However, besides that fact, I love the system.  If you do get this system, you also get two factory 85-watt amps included in the trunk, which is all that much better.  So all in all, the system is great.

The SN95 body, which lasted from 1994-1998, making the 1994 the first of this style, is incredible.  It's sleek, allows for good handling, and leaves a pretty good space for the interior.  It has that famous side intake near the rear wheels, a great spoiler/rear wing that nicely complements the rest of the car, and I just think the body looks amazing.  It's a huge constrast to earlier Fox Body mustangs with the boxy type look to them.  I myself even consider this body style to be better than the new '99-'02 bodies with the false hood intake and side intakes.

The interior on the car was as well, the first to have the cockpit like design for the Mustangs.  I really like this design, and it also allows for easy access to everything for the driver.  The only complaints I can have about this are the location of the fog light switch and the one and only cup holder and it's placement. The foglight switch is right on the console between the driver side and passenger side seats.  Instead of it being there, I would have suggested it be near the headlight pull switch and the rear defrost button up to the left of the stering wheel on the dash.  As well, the cupholder comes out of the console lid inbetween the two passenger and driver seats.  Its even somtimes a hassle to get it out, you have to flip the lid, which is held by a magnet that can sometimes be tricky to lift up, then pull up on the cupholder, and flip it out.  Even then, you can barely hold a medium drink from McDonald's in there.  However, many people who own mustangs and don't like this, have simply switched out the entire center console are, and replaced it with the console from a 1996-98 console, which was first to feature the two cupholders right by the emergency brake.  Other than that, the rest of the interior on this Mustang is great.  The seats are great, and they even come with optional lumbar support, which is nice.  The only thing I don't like about the space of the car, are the rear seats, but this is almost always a common thing in sports cars.  Sitting in the rear seats is bad, there is no leg room, and you often find yourself having to put your knees on either sides of the seat in front of you, but oh well, if you're looking for room and space in a car, don't look for it in sports cars.

The engine on this car is great, and I was extremely pleased when Ford continued on with the 5.0 legacy, which ended in the next year with the 1995 mustang, and they went to the 4.6 on the GT's in 1996.  The 5.0 litre engines on the GT's gave out actually 215 horsepower, but Ford said it gave 220.  Regardless, that's good amounts of power, and it's stock.  The car also sounds really nice with the dual exhaust.  However, the headers on the car are bad.  Because of production time and costs, Ford but some dents in the headers to make them easier to install, and this descreases your possible horsepower.  If you take a look under the hood of a 1994 mustang gt, look on the right side at the headers, and you'll see what I'm talking about.  Also, Ford has been putting in these air intake silencer, which are at the beginning of your air intake system, and are usually located by the right front fender,  It's a rubber cone-shaped piece that Ford used to silence the sound of the car a bit, and to keep some more of the debris out.  People who are big into performance know about this, and right away they usually just yank that out of there, and it's good for a couple horses.  All in all, this engine is great, and I just wish Ford would have continued with the 5.0.

The stock shifter is something I have to say something about.  It sucks.  If you read any magazine that has an article on the stock shifter, or have driven one or talked to someone who has, they'll all tell you that the car was made with a really bad shifter.  It shifts hard, and is really easy to miss third.  But this is easily taken care of by simply buying a new shifter, removing the console, switching them out, and putting the console back on, then you're good to go.  Simple as that.

So the 1994 Ford Mustang gets my approval.  It's a great car, sleek and stylish body, nice engine, great stereo, and just a few minor things that need to be worked out by the new owner.  I would recommend this car to anyone who knows how to handle a performance car, and is able to drive it.  Don't let an in-experinced driver take this car out, especially with a 5-speed, and let them think they know what their doing when the peel out.  Trust me.

<b>Update:</b>
I have just recently purchased a 1994 Ford Mustang Cobra as well, so I will soon have a separate review on that car.  The Cobra is considered to be the next step up from the GT, so there will be some similarites and differences to describe, thanks.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<