DOC>
<DOCID> 1440 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1990_Pontiac_Trans_Sport </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_58845269636 </URL>
<TEXT>
                My parents were crazy!

    They drove up in this ugly Crimson and Grey beast with a nose so long, it boggled my mind. I walked over, shaking my head, and asked what had happened to the Corsica. They said, "We traded it in on this 1993 Lumina!" I replied, "Can you get it back?"
    Needless to say, I was a hard sell.
    Over the years, I found myself behind the wheel of their Van more than once, and other than the difficulties in getting used to the deceptively large front end, I liked it more and more! I decided that if I ever had the chance, I'd pick one up. Finally, while searching through the classified car section, I saw a 1990 Pontiac Trans Sport for $2500. (Canadian)
    I went to see it, and purchased it less than a day later!
    My 1990 Trans Sport SE is white, with a grey interior. It's seen a lot of travel, with 247 000 on the odometer, but it runs like a top! I wasn't too impressed with the 3.1, (My parent's Lumina has the 3.8, a MUCH better engine IMHO!) and the three speed auto didn't sit too well with me. After driving it though, I found that for a mid-sized V6, the 3.1 thinks it's a lot bigger. (I won't tell if you won't!)
    Fuel economy is good, (for a mini-van!) with the ahead-of-it's-time aerodynamics. The long slanted nose and rounded edges make for low wind resistance, but take some getting used to. The lack of overdrive hurts it in the long run though. If you're thinking about holding out for a 1990 with the 3.8 and Auto-overdrive, don't hold your breath. It simply wasn't an option in that year. Power is acceptable, passing is an possible, but takes guts.
    I'm a big guy, 6'3" and shall we say, sturdy? Interior room is high on my list of priorities, and I was not disappointed. The large doors make it easy for big folks to get in and out of. Leg room and head room have been well thought out, and passenger space is plentiful; you can haul up to 7 people!. My van has the modular seating arrangement; instead of two bench seats in the back, it has five individual seats that can be folded down, flipped forward, or removed one at a time! For those of you who hate hauling a 50-100 lb seat out of the back, the 30 (approx) lb seats are a breeze to handle. One complaint? Some of the rear seats have folding arm-rests that seem like a good idea, but actually get in the way more often than not.
    I can't say too much about the reliability, since I haven't owned it for long, but watch out for the doors... They tend to need repairs sooner than later.
    The body is made of plastic, here in Canada, that's a VERY big plus. I will never have to worry about my van rusting out, as long as I keep it undercoated. The panels are dent resistant, so unless they're hit hard enough to crack, they'll look as good as new for decades!
    One nasty quirk, the seatbelts tend to break down! My driver-front belt no longer retracted, so I called over 10 scrap-yards looking for a replacement... As soon as I mentioned what I had, you could hear them giggling in the background!
    Being the first model year, my van has a few annoying problems. For instance, the floor heater vents in the front aren't placed very well. They'll warm the seat sides well enough, but my feet are still pretty cold. The cupholder / ashtray pull outs are flimsy and weak. (Mine were broken off before I bought it!) I could go on, but added up, they're just minor inconveniences.
    Finally, like all mini-vans, engine maintainence is going to be a nightmare. I'm used to old-school mechanics. A V-8 in a massive engine bay, with room enough for two big guys to settle in and work for hours. With the large dash, and hood overhang, anything but minor operations are going to be painful.
    In closing, I'll say that despite several minor glitches, the 1990 Trans Sport is a good, solid van. I'd buy one again, but I'd probably go for a 91, with the bigger six, and overdrive tranny...


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<