DOC>
<DOCID> 16183 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Toyota_Sienna </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-18A-16D6BF1-3888FDF6-bd1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            This auto purchase was the one battle my husband and I had for over a year!  He loved the practicality and low cost of driving a minivan (the insurance is amazingly low and gas mileage is great.)  I'm the &quot;I never want to drive a minivan&quot; sort of person and I'm here to say that I absolutely love this minivan.  

Being a stay-at-home mom pregnant with my third baby, I desperately needed a vehicle that could accommodate three child car seats. There just was not a whole lot on the market for this need.  Basically, we had the choice of either a minivan or one of the larger sport utility vehicles to choose from.  

After a year's worth of research, I was thrilled when I discovered that Toyota was making a new minivan.  I test drove the Ford Windstar (felt too much like a mommy mobile), the Dodge Caravan (felt like I was driving a delivery truck), and then there was this van.  Yippe! Maybe it's that I traded in a Camry and I'm just a Toyota junkie, but this van feels nothing like a minivan, yet offers all the perks of driving one.

The biggest bonus of having a minivan and being a mom, is that when it's raining I can load everyone into the van, out of elements of the weather, then deal with buckling car seats, finding toys, etc.  Once everyone is safely loaded, all I have to do is walk back up the aisle to my seat without getting out of the van.  In a sport utility vehicle, I'm not sure I would have had this convenience.  

The dual sliding doors are super.  I'm not sure why you would want a minivan without them!  Only one on my Sienna is power, but they both operate very smoothly and I've yet to have any problems.  One caution for the power one is that a little hand will not stop it from closing.  My son can attest to that (luckily without any harm!)  The one problem I do have from time to time is that my kids want to play with the button next to the door that opens/closes the sliding door.  This can be eliminated by using the lock feature (another button on the control panel) which will keep the button by the door from functioning.

The ride is incredibly comfortable.  There's no bouncing around not even in the rear seats.  We have taken the Sienna on all of our trips so far, with absolutely no complaints.  The seats are great and even the back is only slightly cramped (my kids don't complain, but an adult might in the rear bench.)  We have the optional leather, with is a definite bonus with little kids and our many McDonald's stops along the way.  The leather seems tough and releases stains well.

There are too many pluses for this minivan to mention them all, but if I were to hit the highlights, I'd focus on the dashboard mapping which is wonderful.  Everything is easy to find and operate.  The stereo system (we have the optional CD player and upgraded speakers) sounds great and you can adjust it many ways in order to accommodate all of your passengers.  Same goes for the heating/ac system (there are many vents that can be controlled from the front.)  We also have the optional sunroof, which is very nice, operates smoothly, and offers a real rush when you want to forget you are in a minivan!  

Cup holders are plentiful and the ones in front are excellent.  I love the way they fold out, accommodate any size cup, and are low to the ground, which I'm sure helps to avoid spillage (just watch out for little passengers who like to play with the front controls before locking themselves in their car seats!).  Another plus for the van, coffee will come out of the carpet quite easily!  I've always been leary about the cup holders that are waist high.  They seem unstable.

The van is roomy, the seats are incredibly easy to remove (even I can carry them!)  There are ample storage compartments for little stuff and the optional bike rack offers even more space for larger loads over long hauls.  There is also an optional towing package (ours has the package to allow us to buy the hitch) for towing a boat, trailer, etc.  It's not very expensive and if you plan to do any towing, make sure the van your purchase has the &quot;optional towing package.&quot;  

As for mechanics, we've had absolutely no problems with the engine in this minivan and are now going on 13,000 miles.  The only negative so far, is that a piece broke off of the left rear wheel drum and the entire drum had to be replaced.  Toyota said there had been no recall (to date) for this problem.  Toyota, as always, was very generous in honoring  their warranty policy and when the part was on back order, accommodated us with another great minivan for about 10 days.

All in all, this van is definitely worth the money.  If you are the type who has a thing against minivans, try this one before you rule them out!

<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<