DOC>
<DOCID> 16847 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec-Photo-Cameras-All-Sony_MVC-FD90 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-5DBC-8550EC1-39BB04F7-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I am hooked on Sony products, I admit it. I have been using Sony Digital products since I first learned of their remarkable capabilities, and versatility. I bought my first digital camera 2 years ago,( my beloved MVC-FD 71).  I bought this product as an upgrade to the original, for better resolution and increased versatility.

I have been a photographer most of my adult life, and have spent some time as a free lance portrait photographer. (I didn't say I made a lot of money doing this, but I have enjoyed every moment spent in the company of images).  I originally bought into the novelty of digital photography when the first little Casio came out. I graduated to a more sophisticated Ricoh the following year, and came to appreciate Sony when I was able to incorporate its use in two major functions of my professional life; photographing art (mine) and capturing personality and gesture. 

Given that background, let me tell you what this SONY has done for me.

1) RESOLUTION: AS with most Sony Cameras, you have some choices on the chosen resolution. You can chose the quality (ie resolution) with pushbutton ease. I usually chose a medium format range, simply to get more images into the standard memory. If using a standard disc format, the images average between 21-40. I can carry 10 or more discs in my camera bag, so will rarely have to economize on picture taking. If you are honest about the quality of photos you take, you will realize that you probably take 1 or 2 good photographs to 10 or more mediocre photos. 

This is the primary advantage of digital over conventional photography for me. Film is forever. Discs can be reformatted and erased. The image size can be set from 1472x1104 down to 640-480, or even to 160 x 112 for the MPEG movie setting. The image setting of 640x480 provides a remarkably good photograph.

2) COLOR Although Sony doesn't advertise this, or claim any advantage over other models, both Sony cameras reproduce true colors better than the Ricoh and Casio models, and are only a little less perfect than my Kodak 260. Maybe it has more to do with my length of experience in using my PHOTO programs with this camera, and the FD 71, but very little editing is required on the &quot;cutting&quot; side.

3) MANUAL FOCUS -You can set the feature and claim true artistic vision, although I rarely do this, since the camera sees images more clearly than my naked eye. I have not yet exploited every feature of this camera to its fullest capabilities, but am anxious to try them all in different settings.

4) SPECIAL EFFECTS Including sepia tone, a solarizing  effect, a negative art effect, as well as a black and white option, for those purists among you. If you use your 35 mm SLR, the SONY will help you set up that shot.

5) DISC TOOL Built into the camera allows you to copy and edit without downloading into your computer and collecting images on your hard drive. The camera will format, and copy wherever you may be.

6) SLIDE SHOW and Brief Movie (MPEG) are intrinsic to the camera, and much can be viewed and edited at the source.

7) SETTING FOR IMAGES. You can adjust the sharpness, the white balance, and the flash level picture to picture, shot to shot.

8) LCD VIEWING AREA IS LARGE ENOUGH TO BE SEEN EASILY AND TAKES YOUR EYEBALL OFF THE BACK OF THE CAMERA. It makes it easier to sneak up on people,( and other wildlife) without losing it while pointing with your head.

9) BATTERY Can be recharged without removing it from the camera, or unlike the FD 71, it can be plugged directly into an outlet.

10) MEMORY-Unlike the FD 71, the FD 90 can be used with a memory stick, which dramatically increases the image storage if you take a LOT of pictures in one place. On hikes, this will be a great advantage. For now, I can get by with the standard floppy disc.


It was with great reluctance that I parted with the trusty MVC-FD 71. It did go to a good home. But I have to tell you, I love it's replacement. If I could afford it I would buy the new fancy cybershot and play with that.  However, for my current needs, this camera is more than adequate. I use it as an ADJUNCT to conventional photography and it has saved me hundred of dollars in film and processing. 

If you are looking for a reasonably priced upgrade to your little digital camera, try this one. You won't be disappointed.

I recommend this camera as a tool for professional photographers,as well as for those of you who just like taking snaps of family and pets. The Sony MVC-FD 90  is a workhouse, and I don't leave home without it.<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<