DOC>
<DOCID> 17317 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Lexus_LS_430 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_18846027396 </URL>
<TEXT>
            When this car was introduced, everyone in the automotive media noticed that the "cons" about it were the "slab-sided  previous generation S-Class styling" and "less-than-perfect transmission behavior". Other than that, they could barely hide their (malicious) grins and exhilaration over stumbling upon automotive nirvana. It's almost as if they would WANT you to ante up the extra ten or fifteen thousand dollars that put you into the new S430 or the soon-to-be-reborn 740iL. Well, fortunately, some of us still shop by value the old content for value judgment yardstick and the seat-of-the-pants sensory feedback rules. 

Let's leave the nouveau-IPO slack-jawed crowd hovering around the "Uber-Machinen" from Munich or Stuttgart. I have owned or leased well in excess of twenty cars of all types and makes. That includes four Mercedes, four BMW's, four Saabs, Infiniti, Lexus (coupe), etc. No Audis, no Jags (as a rule, design does not triumph over poor quality- found that out from Saab repeatedly). Some memorable cars: '90 Q45, 93 RX-7, 98 Beetle, 76 Scirocco. Perfect cars: only TWO. The Lexus Coupe (95) and the 01 LS430 (Euro/Nav/Levinson) I now have. That is it. Contenders? All have competed but have fallen by the wayside. They include: Jag XK Coups, MB S430, Porsche 911, MB CLK430, Infiniti Q45 (the 02).  Reasons? None compare to the new LS 430 when all is said and done. Take the tests for yourself:  

1. MB S430- Best Price $70500. "Stripper" with Xenon and heated seats. Less horsepower, less trunk space, more weight, less gas mileage, less headroom and legroom, more plastic, less leather, snooty salesmen. Plus: More stylish. Verdict?  Nicht. Not on account of "more stylish" alone.

2. BMW 740 - Best Price $ 68000.  HEAVY, cramped interior, smaller trunk, fewer HP, warranty not as good, service department with an attitude (Zey all do zat...). Verdict?
Maybe, when the new model is born, not today. NOT at this price. Auf Widersen....

3. Jag. Let's not go there. What is the excuse for buying outdated technology in the new millennium? Nostalgia. Fine for Burt Bacharach. Save yourself the trouble. ye olde ride quality myth has been debunked back when the Lexus was first launched. 

4. Audi A8 . Hmmm, try repairing THIS one at your friendly ALCOA body shoppe a few dings later. Your insurance company will have a fit. Resale value. What resale value? Dependability? Questionable at best. Exclusive? You bet. Only you and a psychotherapist with a severe case of fin de siecle ennui or angst might be caught driving it.

5. Infiniti Q45. Know what? Nice try this time, right out of the gate. More HP, some unfortunate gizmos (rearview TV to watch LIVE, as you squash your potted plants!) some class in the interior design. Exterior styling? Never as daring as the first generation car. Try a hybrid GS400 meets Chevy Impala, meets Nissan Anything. Then, ask yourself: Will the company survive? Will Renault prevail? Look for more suede, more Cartier-like clocks, the return of the perfume air freshener beneath the driver's seat (anyone remember that?) and bend-over forwards or backwards dealer service. In the meantime, also look for: no resale value, great future used-car bargains, no real acceptance/ understanding by the car buying public (in the USA)for this iconoclast of a car. Still, a Bang & Olufsen stereo "affcionado" might want to rush out and get one to complete his/her Feng-Shui in the carport. Might as well bring the trees and rocks ads back. It's THAT much of a mystery. Still. Just look at the sales numbers.

And now, for the actual Lexus review: 
Short and Sweet.

Buy the base LS430, get the Euro-tuned suspension, so as to remotely have a sense of what is under those tires. Skip the factory 16 in wheels (they look like they came off a leftover Avalon), go for the 17 in.package. Get the Navigation system if you plan to drive all over the USA, and get the Levinson stereo if you plan to really LISTEN to your CD collection. (This disqualifies realtorettes and stockbrokers who plan to spend more time yakking on their Nokias than listening to Peter Gabriel). Get a color you and your neighbors can live with (Ivory,Black,Gold) . Leave the Ultra Luxury box blank when you buy your options, as you are not likely to be Hugh Grant sitting in the rear, with the massagers on, and the cooler (CAVIAR ANYONE?)loaded. Nor will you ever really use the Laser cruise unless you are Dr. Evil going straight down I-10 for ten hours, in pursuit of Austin Powers. (Never on a rainy day, never around curves). Save the 7 grand option load and take it to your travel agent/investment counselor/favorite charity.

You will still end up with the finest, most refined, most well assembled, best body-stamped, best leather-stitched, best richly-painted, best detailed-quality controlled vehicle extant. Including the Roller. NOT assembled in Alabama. NOT assembled in Mexico. Canada. Hungary. Kreplachistan. Nothing against those places as such, but a  car as complex as this is best put together like a Swiss watch; in the country where it was conceived. 

Engineered, manufactured, assembled and infinite-times quality tested and re-tested in Japan. By obsessive people who understand that if they fail you once, they do not get another chance in the $55 to $75 category. I mean WHO else puts soft little cushions of foam between the driver's seat and the center console JUST to avoid the likelihood of leather squeaking against plastic?

There are no other comments to make. You WILL like the ride, the absolute silence, the steering, the braking, the handling, the oodles of features, the understated elegance and ooze of quality in every corner and screw. Everyone does. The detractors are simply envious, or already own one of the other models listed above and are trying to rationalize their acquisition.

So, enjoy. Cars like this come around only once every decade. If then. The bar has indeed been raised. Let the lim(b)o begin. This car rules at the moment. 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<