DOC>
<DOCID> 17629 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Saturn_SC </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_27502546564 </URL>
<TEXT>
            For an overall review on how I feel about Saturn see the epinion about my Saturn SL.  This review is about the hubby's car and why he wanted the SC1 instead of the SL like me.  We are both sold on Saturn and that is why we both got new cars.  I wanted the simple bare bones 4 door type but the hubby wanted something with a little more style, so he got the SC.

Let's first start off by my telling you that his former car, that he loved was a 1987 Toyota Corolla Wagon with 135,000 miles and lots of life still in it.  He loved the space in that car and they way we could pack so much stuff in it that the car would groan.  He wasn't sure that the new car would do that, but surprise we can pack just as much stuff in the SC as we could in the Wagon.

The third door on the SC allows you access to load large things into the back seat with ease.  The only down side is that the back seat is not the most comfortable place for passengers..it feels a little cramped.  For us this works fine because we rarely take people in the hubby's car and my SL will fit passengers just fine.  

The design of the SC means just a little less visibility out the back window.  It is really apparent when you have driven in the SL and then go to the SC.  In my SL, the view is unobstructed and I love that, but it takes a little getting used to in the SC because the view is a little less.  It also takes a little getting used to the view out the front because it is hard to see the front end of the car, but it also gives you more visibility because you don't see the front end.  I am sure all of this will be mute in a few months when we are really used to the cars.

The SC has a great sporty look and that was another feature that the hubby liked.  He was ready to trade in that Wagon look for something with a little more style.  He likes that the car handles well, he has the 5 speed which means better gas mileage.  Hubby also got to take the Saturn "E" ticket test drive.  It was that test drive that sold him on the car.  It has a lot of pep for a little engine.  The SC has the same engine that our Toyota had but it has the feel of more power.

Hubby also liked what was under the hood.  Saturn makes it easy to find things and fix them.  Everything is clearly marked and you could do a lot of the work yourself.  However, we won't be doing that because we paid a little more and got the Saturn Car Care extend maintenance.  Now all we have to do for the next 5 years or 60,000 miles is put in gas.

We like our new cars, and it isn't quite a month since we got them, but I can already tell that we are going to be Saturn fanatics.  Hubby also got the .09% finance for 5 years and that was also the best reason to buy right now.  Our car insurance for his car only went up by $100.00 per year and that was because of all the safety features that come with the car.  Also our insurance doesn't see this car as a "sports" car...but it sure looks like one and drives like one.

Hubby got a SC1 in blue so our cars look like twins, except I have 4 doors.  His car also came with A/C, CD radio and we had the back windows tinted.  We spent $16,601 and with the finance charge it came to $16,984, not bad when you consider what cars cost today.  For the price of my BMW Z3 we bought two cars...and who knows someday I may even get that Z3, or not.  

Finally, we had the best laugh when we found out that not only did we buy two cars in one night but our keys are just about the same.  My key will open his car and his key will open and start mine.  Good thing we are in the same family.  Saturn told us this was rare...but for us it was just another fun thing to know about our cars.  We will never be afraid of locking ourselves out of our new cars.

Overall, the Saturn experience was great, and we are both happy with the new cars.  If you are looking for bare bones and simple then go with the SL but if you are like the hubby and seek that sporty look get the SC.  Heck if you have to have the SUV, just wait until Sept. 2001 and the new Saturn SUV will be available.  There is a Saturn to fit anyone.  Great car and great company...we love our Saturn's.


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<