DOC>
<DOCID> 18338 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/484010_Fuji_Film_FinePix_4900_Zoom </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_63519559300 </URL>
<TEXT>
            After much research, including reading posts on Epinions, I decided on getting the Fuji FinePix 4900Z camera.I chose this over the Olympus 3040 for price reasons and because of its many prosumer features.

Included in the box was a USB cable, rechargeable Li-on battery, battery charger, and 8Mb SmartMedia card. The 8Mb SmartMedia card is far too low in storage capacity so one should supplement it with a 64Mb or, better still, 128 Mb SmartMedia card. Prices are falling on these and they average about .50 cents a Megabyte of storage capacity. One has to remember that the more megapixels a camera has, chances are that photos with higher resolution and therefore larger files sizes are needed.

The pocket sized 130 page manual that comes with the camera is good and quite detailed, although I would have preferred to see more information on shooting with "aperture priority" and "shutter" modes. But there's so much information that I suppose Fuji would have to publish, literally, a book to cover all in detail.

The magnesium alloy finish of the camera is beautiful, as well as give it a very light weight. The ergonomics is first class, with the buttons on the left side of the barrel housing allowing one to use one's left hand if necessary for two handed operation of the controls. The EVF/LCD viewfinder allows one to switch between them so as to conserve battery life from the power hungry LCD screen.

So how does the camera perform? In a word, great! As a beginner most of my photos were taken using the Automatic setting. By slightly depressing the shutter release, the camera focuses on a subject and the spot metering assures proper exposure. Another function accomplished by slightly depressing the shutter release is it turns on the battery again without taking one's eyes off the viewfinder to look for the other "power on" button. Camera settings can be viewed on both the EVF and LCD screen. A multifunction button in back of the camera allows one to do a whole slew of programming, including the setting of resolution from 2400x1800 pixels to 640x480 for web photos. Within these pixel resolution categories there are subsets of "high," "fine," "normal," and "basic" settings. Caution: setting your resolution to 2400x1800 "high" would result in a whopping file size and drastically reduce the number of pictures you can take. 

As a compromise, I leave my resolution setting at 1280x960 "normal," and when I Emailed the pictures to friends they were very impressed with the color and sharpness. This is a compromise setting because I also want to have some good resolution for printing out 4x5 postcard sized pictures using my Epson Stylus Color 860 printer using photo paper and the photo enhance feature of the printer. The results are very satisfactory. Imagine what 1600x1200 "fine" setting would do to your pictures, to say nothing of the 2400x1800 setting.

On paper, the 6x optical zoom is impressive, but don't try it without using a tripod. The macro setting is easy to use: just leave it at "automatic" and point your camera at, say, a flower, move close to compose, press the macro button and presto, a gorgeous photo results. 

Playback is easy, with the large 2" LCD screen and friendly menu buttons. You can erase, zoom in your frame, tile frames, and resize frames. I resize when I want to make 640x480 photos for web use.

Although the USB cable that comes with the camera kit allows direct connection to one's computer, I prefer purchasing a USB card reader which is about the size of a tiny mouse. This is in fact a hard drive of sorts and much more convenient; plus, it does not draw one's camera battery current since it is directly connected to the computer rather than from the camera to the computer. A USB card reader can be had for $30 if on sale (I got mine for free as it came with the 128Mb SmartMedia card I purchased).

Because there are so many features in this camera, the learning curve is somewhat steep at first. Playing it conservative by using the AF setting in the beginning helps one to not only get great pictures, but enables one to get familiarized with all the controls before exploring the intricacies of the FinePix 4900. As with most other digital cameras, prices are dropping with the passage of time. When it first came out it listed for over $900. Today, if you shopped around, one can be had for less than $500. 


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<