DOC>
<DOCID> 19307 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec-Photo-Cameras-All-Fuji_FinePix_1400 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_31522852484 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I did a lot of online research before finally settling on the Fuji Finepix 1400 Zoom. In fact, I didn't even know about it until I visited this FANTASTIC web site http://www.imaging-resource.com/. It was there that I was able to compare actual pictures taken with the different cameras that I was considering. I thought that the image quality looked pretty darn good on the Fuji Finepix 1400. It was great for any camera, but especially one costing under $300. And now that I have my own Finepix 1400, I haven't been disappointed at all with the image quality, or much else for that matter. 

GREAT FOR AUCTION SITES & OTHER WEB PICTURES...

I use this camera primarily for selling stuff on eBay and for taking pictures of my baby daughter for our web site and for printing out pictures to send to family.

For the eBay stuff, I take a lot of pictures in the Macro mode, which means you can focus on an object as close as 4 inches away. The only complaint I have about macro mode is that the flash almost always causes glare on whatever I'm shooting, especially if the item is plastic or has a gloss to it. I've also had to play around with the file size of some of my pictures because eBay only allows you to post pictures up to 300K in size, but this obviously won't be a concern for everyone.

SOME PROBLEMS I FOUND...

While taking pictures of my 5 month old daughter, I found a couple of relatively minor problems with the Fuji Finepix 1400. First off, it's really hard to capture a certain cute facial expression on an infant because they simply move faster than the camera shutter. So, when my baby is flashing her most adorable grin, I can't capture it unless she holds it for a few seconds or if I press the shutter button just as she's starting to smile. Luckily, a digital camera allows many chances for capturing that perfect shot, so I've just learned to be patient and persistent. 

The second problem is that almost all of the pictures I take of people indoors have red-eye. I was using the red-eye reduction flash, but then the shutter delay problem became even worse because of that initial strobe-like flash. So I've stopped using it altogether and simply touch up any red eye with the Adobe Photo Deluxe software that came with this camera.

PHOTO SOFTWARE AND PRINTING PICTURES

I think one of the most pleasant surprises about this camera was the software that came with it. While it was a little tricky to install on my iMac (I'm fairly computer illiterate, though), I LOVE Adobe Photo Deluxe 2.0. It lets you touch up your pictures, from getting rid of red eye and resizing the picture to adjusting the brightness and contrast. You can also apply cool special effects or create your own personal greeting cards if you so desire. I regularly take advantage of the 'tiled printing' effect, which allows you to print several copies of the same picture (think of the portrait sheets you'd get from Sears) and printed out some great pictures on my no-frills Epson Stylus. My family may not even be able to tell that they're not real photographs.

THE SMARTMEDIA CARD CAPACITY (OR LACK THEREOF)..

I have only taken pictures in the 1280x960 normal quality mode because I like the detail and have no use for the lower quality mode of 640x80. With the 4MB SmartMedia card that came with the camera, that meant I could take only 12 pictures before I needed to download them to my computer. Obviously 12 pictures isn't a lot, so one of my first purchases was a 64MB SmartMedia card from www.newegg.com for $37 including shipping. A 64MB card holds 198 pictures in the 1280x960 normal mode, which is probably overkill but better to be safe than sorry.

RECHARGEABLE BATTERIES WILL BECOME YOUR BEST FRIENDS...

My second purchase for the camera was a set of rechargeable NiMH batteries and a charger for about $30. The set of 4 alkaline AA batteries that came with the camera didn't seem to last very long. However, I am pleasantly surprised at how long the rechargeable NiMH set is lasting in between charges (and I use the LCD display a lot) so I really think that's the way to go.

MORE GOOD THINGS ABOUT THE CAMERA...

I like the USB cable interface for downloading photos, and in fact I didn't consider any cameras that didn't have this feature. It's simply much easier and faster than using a serial port. 

I like using the zoom features (3x optical zoom and 2x digital zoom) and having the self-timer.

Finally, I find this camera to be very user friendly, both in its ergonomic design and how easy it is to navigate through the options menu on the LCD display. 

I just realized I could keep going on about more wonderful things about the Fuji Finepix 1400 Zoom, but I'll spare both of us and stop here. Again, you really should check out http://www.imaging-resource.com/ for objective information and side-by-side comparisons of pictures taken from whatever camera(s) you're considering. It was a tremendous help to me. Good luck!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<