DOC>
<DOCID> 19552 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2004_Jeep_Liberty </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_124711898756 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I really shopped around for a small but serious SUV.  To my dissapointment, there was not much out there.  Most of the small SUVs out there were simply full-time AWD station wagons with big tires.  What I mean by this is:
1) Under-powered
2) No option between 2WD and 4WD (only AWD)
3) No LOW gear ratio
4) No "Oh $h|T" bars
etc...

When I called around to different dealerships like Hyundai and Toyota, they could not offer what I wanted.  Someone actually told me the only vehicle to suit my desire was a Hummer!

After lots more research, I narrowed my search down between Jeep Liberty and Nissan X-terra.  After test driving, there was no comparing the two.  The nissan felt like an under-powered 1970's Japanese pickup with a cool SUV body on it.  It handled poorly and had a bad view of the road (or off road).  The Jeep Liberty was powerful and felt very tight on the off-road - stiff suspension, no rattles, and a great view of the road.

The dealership I bought from was terrible! :(  Jim Smolich in Bend OR).  I wish I went out of town to buy because they are real snakes there.  They told me the Columbia package edition I bought had ABS - when I drove it to the airport the next day in the snow I found out the hard way there were NO ABS INCLUDED!  It took two weeks with arguing with management there to make it somewhat right and still lost over $1500 trading in for the one I really wanted :(  After dealing with Smolich Motors in Bend Oregon I will never recommend anyone go there.  It was HELL dealing with those people.  Communicating to Jeep/Daimler corporate was also NO HELP.  They said they were just suppliers and had to say so in the dealing of their "independant" dealerships.  NO SOLUTIONS and NO HELP.   BOOOOOOOO Daimler-Chrysler-Jeep corporate and Smoochlick Motors.

Anyway I got the Liberty I really wanted and the Jeep is such a nice unit that I am actually very happy with it despite my negative dealings with the dealership and company.

Here are some of the options I got in mine and care to comment on:

Selec-Trac 4WD - Excellent 4WD system with the Full-Time or Part-Time option as well as PT-Lo option.  I live in snow country in OR and have not had the vehicle out of the Full-Time 4WD since I bought it (1 month ago).  Handles GREAT in the snow!  Be careful if not in 4WD, the short wheel-base and powerful engine (3.7 Litre PowerTec V6) can easily make the back end come around in slippery conditions.

Oversize Off-road Tires - Look cool and excellent traction.  Very low road noise for this type of tire too.

Towing Package - Class 3 receiver and comes with heavy duty engine cooling and power steering cooling so definitely a plus.

Deep Sunscreen Window Tint - Looks great from the outside, very dark for privacy but easy to see out from the inside.

6 Infinity Speakers - Well, they are Infinity so they are all right.  Nice highs and enough base to get by.  On my Liberty there are alternate volume and stereo adjustments on the back side of the leather-wrapped steering wheel - they are easy to reach and safer to use even though the Liberty is a small vehicle and the regular knobs can be reached easily anyway.

One of my big concerns for an off-road SUV is the view of the road.  In the Liberty, the view is great!  Anyone who is serious about off-roading knows that a large part of the activity is avoiding objects that are in your way.  If you cannot see them then you could get in some trouble out there.  For example I test drove the Hyundai Santa Fe; from the drivers seat the front wheel flares (which look cool from the outside) inhibit the view of the road.  You probably wouldn't want to do any serious off-roading in the Santa Fe, but if you did your view of a stump or boulder or crevasse could be blocked unnecessarily from the vehicle's body design.  Another part is the interior seating.  In the Liberty the seats are very upright.  Some people may see this as "not comfortable" on longer road trips, but this configuration is valuable for a posture of vigilance in an off-road environment.

Overall I really like the Jeep Liberty.  It gave the market a unique, small SUV that I believe many people were looking for - made for actual off-roading in mind, but with a luxury look and feel.



            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<