DOC>
<DOCID> 20587 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Audi_A4 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-2F97-10F120BF-3992CFE2-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            If brute-force acceleration is your thing, look elsewhere.  However, if you are looking for a versatile, solidly-built performance sedan that does just about everything well while looking handsome, the A4 is a great choice.

BUILD-QUALITY

The A4 is a solid machine.  Just listen to the satisfying &quot;thunk&quot; the doors make when shut.  Check the miniscule gaps between the perfectly-fitted door and body panels.  The dashboard is a one-piece design to eliminate any potential squeaks or rattles.  The car is just rock-solid.

DETAILS - LOTS OF THEM

Another unique aspect of the A4 is in the details.  Everywhere you look, it becomes clearly evident that many people took a lot of time and effort in the design of the vehicle.  There is a mini-visor in the gap between the rear-view mirror and roof.  There are &quot;anchors&quot; in the trunk to hold down luggage.  The front windows not only have auto-down, but also auto-up with pinch-protection.  Instead of dropping down all the way, possibly hitting a passengers knees in the process, the glove box has a &quot;stop&quot; built into its mechanism which halts its downward momentum at the half-way open point.  Even the A/C vents have little &quot;stops&quot; built into their mechanisms so the truly anal-retentive don't have to spend much time getting all the vents lined up perfectly!  I could go on, but you get the idea.

UNIQUE CHASSIS AND DRIVELINE

If Audi is known for one particular feature, it is the Quattro all-wheel drive system.  This is a true all-wheel drive system that begins with a 50/50 split front to back.  The Quattro system also has the ability to transfer torque left and right in addition to front and back.  The 50/50 split allows for very even distribution of engine torque.  In actually offers many benefits in completely dry weather for spirited driving (hence the &quot;Audi being banned from racing commercial&quot;).  For example, suddenly lifting off the throttle in a high-speed turn can upset the balance of many sport sedans by putting an uneven load on the rear or front tires (from the braking-effect of the engine), causing a spinout (like you see at the track sometimes).  Since Quattro is distributing these forces across all four wheels, this type of action is less disturbing to an A4 with Quattro.

Rather than having a sporting focus, other systems are set up solely for added traction when needed, such as the Volvo system.  The Volvo system, like many other all-wheel drive systems starts off by sending all power to the rear-wheels.  If slip is detected, then partial power is transferred to the fronts.  This is also how Jeep's new Quadra-Drive system works.  

The Quattro system also helps out immensely in traction-limited situations, such as with snow and ice.  Acceleration times are drastically improved in these conditions, so when you are trying to get across a slippery intersection while an 18-wheeler is heading straight for you, you WILL appreciate the Quattro.  

While Quattro offers great traction benefits for acceleration, it doesn't help out as much as people think for cornering - as far as traction goes.  Cornering traction is mainly a function of your tires, so no matter how fast you can get to speed, your ultimate cornering speed will be dictated by your tires.  Also, no matter how quickly you can accelerate in slippery conditions with Quattro, you will certainly NOT stop any faster, so keep that in mind!  

One added benefit of the Quattro system that most people don't pay much attention to is the fact that the Quattro option also includes a fully-independent rear suspension.  With the front-drive, a torsion-beam axle with trailing arms is standard.  The independent suspension improves handling, especially over rough pavement.  

HANDLING/BRAKING

The A4 provides excellent cornering capability, with limited body roll.  The sport package vastly improves handling with different springs, shocks and z-rated tires.  The sport springs and shocks tighten the ride up a bit, and thankfully do not affect ride comfort significantly.  I consider the sport package to give the best mix between ride comfort and handling, and is probably the closest equivalent in dry-weather handling to a BMW 3-series - which I consider to be the best in class in terms of dry weather performance driving.

The &quot;dramatic&quot; difference in handling the sport package provides is about 75% due to the z-rated high-performance tires, which stick like crazy glue in comparison to the all-season tires included on the stock suspension.  For those who doubt that tires make that much of a difference, you are mistaken.  I have raced my A4 and a friends A4 in autocross competitions here in the northeast.  The all-season tires would screech and howl around those cones, while the z-rated rubber would grab and claw their way around the tight turns.  Night and day.  However, there are two drawbacks if you do go with the sport package.  First, the high-performance tires do not last nearly as long as the all-season tires.  The sticky treads wear much more quickly.  Second, if you live where there is snow, you will absolutely need snow tires.  High-performance tires are notoriously poor in the white fluffy stuff.

Regardless of which way you go, you will likely be happy with the A4's handling.  The car can make any driver feel like a champ with its smooth moves.  It holds a turn beautifully, and gives the driver plenty of feedback.  Moderate understeer is evident and will warn unsuspecting drivers that they are approaching the cars limits.  The sport package introduces a bit less understeer and the more aggressive tires sharpen the cars reflexes a bit.  The 4-link front suspension is an amazing piece of engineering work.  If anyone has driven a front-wheel drive version of the A4, they would be hard pressed to tell that it wasn't a Quattro.  The torque steer normally evident in front-drive vehicles is simply eradicated by the 4-link front suspension.  Throw the same suspension on a Quattro, and the ante is raised even higher. 

The A4 has 10.9&quot; vented discs in front, with 9.6&quot; solid discs in back.  While providing good stopping power, they could be improved a bit with larger discs.  The ABS 5.3 is current state-of-the-art and allows the braking system to automatically vary pressure from the front to backs.  This is a nice feature since most of the braking force on cars takes place in the fronts. 

ENGINE

The 2.8 liter engine in the Audi is a technical tour de force.  Five-valves per cylinder, variable valve-timing, variable intake manifold, and meets the new ULEV standard of emissions.  It is silky-smooth, sounds very refined, and provides linear power from about 3500 rpms on up through the rev range.  What it does lack is the low-end oomph (torque) that you will find on the 3-series, especially the new 330i, which I recently drove.  Clearly, while the 2.8 liter engine is well-engineered and provides adequate performance, a bump in horsepower is needed desperately to keep up with the rest of the class of 2000.  So while the A4 is no dragster off the line, it does pick up momentum past 3500 rpm.  At highway speeds, there is plenty of power for passing, and cruising at 75 to 85 is effortless.  This is where the 2.8 liter really outguns the 1.8T.  For long highway jaunts, the 2.8 is the smoother and more relaxed of the two (as it should be with an extra liter of displacement and 2 extra cylinders).  Wind and tire noise are also kept to a minimum.  The high-performance tires make a bit of noise with their more aggressive compound, but are still relatively silent.

TRANSMISSION

The 5-speed manual transmission in the Audi A4 is a joy to drive.  It does lack some of the precision that the 3-Series 5-speed manuals have, and the pedal placement isn't optimum for heel-and-toe shifting, but overall it will work well for the majority of drivers.  The clutch is relatively light and &quot;grabs&quot; low in the pedal travel.

The 5-speed automatic with Tiptronic is a smooth transmission that does a good job as far as doing what you want it to do when you want it done.  However, for those truly expecting the Tiptronic to offer the same control that a stick allows...forget it.  After the novelty wears off, I doubt many people will continue to use the Tiptronic feature.  There just isn't that directly-connected feel that a stick offers.  The Tiptronic doesn't respond all that quickly, and the shifts still have that mushy feel that an automatic transmission provides.  As far as I know, the only solution of this sort truly worth its salt is the system in the Ferrari 355 F1.  These are true &quot;clutchless manuals&quot;, that shift in the blink of an eye, quickly match revs for downshifts, and simply amaze the driver.  However, this option alone in the Ferrari costs about a third as much as the entire Audi will run you...so back to earth.

SPACE

This is one area that the Audi A4 doesn't excel in.  There is plenty of room in the front for people 6'5&quot; and under (I am 6'3&quot; and fit quite nicely).  However, the back seat is almost useless if anyone over 5'8&quot; is in the front.  Very tight back there.  One other minor annoyance for tall drivers is that the center console is rather wide, and if you are just the right height (as I was), your shin or knee will rest uncomfortably against the upper-portion of the center console.  The trunk is relatively roomy for a vehicle in this class.


ERGONOMICS

The cabin of the A4 is stunning.  No car company today is doing a better job at mixing wood, plastic and leather to create a beautiful place to spend time and chew up miles of road.  As beautiful as the A4 is on the outside, it is even more so on the inside.  The large glass surfaces, especially the windshield, let plenty of light in.  The A4 is the first Audi to truly ditch the very high waist line, such as with the 90, that gave the passengers a feeling of being &quot;closed-in&quot;.

The seats are firm yet very supportive, and your back and butt will do quite well on long trips.  The sport seats are more aggressive, especially the side bolsters.  You will either like them or hate them.  For those of you who are broad-shouldered, I would definitely give the sport seats a test-drive before ordering.  You may find them a bit narrow.

I love the instrumentation.  Especially the way the switches and gauges are backlit in traditional Audi red.  This choice of color for the instrumentation has often been criticized, as the color-blind have an extremely difficult time seeing them at night.  For those of us who can see the whole spectrum of light, it is rather &quot;cool&quot; looking, and sure to garner comments from passengers.

SUMMARY

The Audi is a car that is an all-around performer.  However, it possesses a quality that cannot be measured with instruments or put on paper (although I will do my best to try).  It just has that certain something that makes you look forward to getting in it and driving.  The exterior is beautiful and clean.  The interior is one of the nicest on the road today.  The handling, especially with Quattro, is sure-footed and confidence-inspiring.  The engine note spews refinement.  This car has a &quot;soul&quot;, which is lacking in the masses of Accords and Camry's littering the road today.  Don't take this the wrong way.  Honda and Toyota sedans are phenomenal cars - great values and superbly engineered.  They are simply built with different priorities.  An Audi (or any German performance sedan) will probably never be as reliable as a Honda or Toyota, but it sure is more fun to drive.

It is the sum of all the parts that make the A4 a wonderful car, and the ONLY way to appreciate this is to drive one.  This is the car that has resurrected Audi, and it is breaking sales records for a reason - so go to your local Audi dealer and find out why for yourself.<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<