DOC>
<DOCID> 20620 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Audi_A4 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_6953733764 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I purchased my Audi A4 Quattro at the end of 2000.  I was in need of a replacement for my aging, leased, Acura Integra GS-R.  Being the sort of individual who over-analyzes and researches products to death, I had been doing an exhaustive comparison of cars in the sports sedan class that fit into the mid 20k price range.

Coming from an Acura Integra, I was spoiled by a car that had great handling (the Integra was a go-kart) and was super reliable.  Things I didn't like about the Acura were it's cheap, plastic interior and the ride quality after 3 years (lots of squeaks, rattles, etc but nothing major).  Additionally the car had lots of small scratches on the paint, the front looked like it had been sandblasted.

I narrowed my choices down to a few vehicles:

1)  Acura TL

2)  Audi A4 

3)  Nissan Maxima

I thought that I was sold on the Maxima.... after all, I could get one fairly loaded for around $26K with one of the best V6 powerplants out there.

I test drove the car, and while it was fairly quick in stop and go traffic, I wasn't floored by the cars handling capabilities.  In addition, the car still seemed to have that plastic, generic, Japanese econo-sedan look, both on the exterior design as well as the interior.

I test drove the A4 next, and I think because of my age (27 at the time) the salesperson didn't take me too seriously... they let me drive the car around the block and that was about it.

Just from that short (and lame) test drive, I was blown away by the interior and exterior qualities of the car.  Everything was finished with such attention to detail... the car was absolutely quiet and all the controls worked like the parts to a swiss watch.  In the cabin you truly feel wrapped in a cocoon of comfort.  All of the materials are pleasurable to the eye and hand.  The outside of the car had gorgeous lines, eye-catching, but in a somewhat subtle, understated way.

I went home and eagerly started to price out an A4 with the options I wanted......  Initially I figured I would forego the Quattro, and heck, who needs the conveniance package with sunroof????  I was trying to figure a way to get the car for under $25,000 to keep it in my price range.  When I talked to the salesperson about getting the car the way I wanted it (stripped down), he seemed rather hesitant.  He explained that over 90% of all A4's sold in North America have the Quattro feature, and it was hard for the dealership to get the fronttrak version.  Additionally, he said that the dealership only ordered "loaded" models, since if a deal fell through it was far easier to sell than a model with minimum features.  

At this point I was pretty bummed out and decided to look at other options.  I checked out the Acura TL, figuring if I was going to go over $25k I ought to get a car that came with "everything".  Although the TL was a very nice car, it really felt more like an gussied up Accord than a true performance sedan.  

I just couldn't get that Audi out of my head!  I went and read a sports sedan shootout from a 1999 Car and Driver article.  In that competition, the A4 even outgunned the more expensive BMW 323i.  I was now more determined than ever to really <b>drive</b> the car and find out what made it so great.... that was the only way I could justify the cost of ownership.

I went back to the dealership and got a different salesperson... I explained to him that I could afford the car, but really needed a good solid test drive to justify the car's cost.  He smiled and said "no problem" and off we went.

I had the pleasure of driving the car for 20 minutes on some nice stretches of roadway that really gave me time to appreciate the car's incredible handling.  I blasted on-ramps at 70+ mph and found out that the little 1.8 liter turbocharged engine had plenty of grunt for highway use.  I slammed on the brakes on an off-ramp and found out that the car stopped on a dime with no sign of stress in the chassis.  I took corners at attack speed and found out that the German engineers with brilliance had dialed in the perfect amount of camber, and that Quattro was a God send!

In short I was hooked.

This isn't a practical car.  There are plenty of practical cars out there.  Honda and Toyota make some really nice ones.... <i>nice</i> not <b>great</b> which is the difference between an Accord or Camry and an A4 with Quattro.

I ended up catching a windfall in stock options and was able to get a fully loaded car at a reasonable cost to me.  carorder.com at the time was running a deal and ended up getting the car to me for just $800 over invoice.  They ended up writing a check to the dealership for $970, I couldn't pass it up.  I got every option except Xenon lights, the tiptronic transmission (automatic) and the CD changer.  The car is a dog with the tiptronic transmission, it pretty much robs the fun out of it, at least for most "sporty" minded drivers.  The winter package is a must if you live in a cold climate, you can't beat the heated seats, mirrors and door locks... makes winter driving a breeze.

If you get the sport package, be prepared to need an extra set of tires for winter driving... as many others have mentioned, the Quattro doesn't do to well with the slick high performance Michelins that come standard with the sport package.  I bought a set of 17" wheels for mine and the stock wheels are used for winter driving with a set of Dunlop M2 wintersport tires.

After one year and 14,000 miles of ownership, I love my A4 as much as ever.  The car looks and drives as well as it did the day I bought it.  I have one door ding, which naturally only myself or another Audi zealot would notice.

The one caveat to owning a car like this is the service.  Audi service in North America sucks.  The mechanics aren't very well trained, and to them it's just another "car"... they make you feel like you have a Saturn or a Ford, not a German masterpiece.  I definitely got superior service on my Acura... most dealerships aren't even open on Saturday!

Additionally cars can be in the shop for extended periods if they need parts that aren't on hand (which is most of them).

Fortunately these cars seem to hold up real well at least during the warranty period and I haven't had any major problems.

Something I didn't realize at the time I was pricing my car out is that Audi is actually cheaper in the US only because of the problems Audi had with a bad image in the late 80's early 90's (that whole 60 minutes "unintended acceleration BS).  Just about everywhere else in the world Audi sells at a higher price than BMW and is considered more of a "premium" sedan.  In Europe, Quattro is about a $4000 option and 80% of cars are sold in front wheel drive configurations.

I would lastly mention that these vehicles can be somewhat pricey to keep up after the initial warranty expires... the $60,000 mile service can run about $500 and that doesn't cover the timing belt change.

All in all though, I would say that once you've driven a car like this one, you won't be able to go back to driving an econobox.  I had to drive a company car back from the airport the other day (a 1997 Ford Taurus wagon) and it was literally torture... made me appreciate my car that much more.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<