DOC>
<DOCID> 21907 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_BMW_5_Series </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-78B6-809E51F-38A1BBFC-bd3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I had been driving an Acura Integra '90 for ten years as I shopped for this car. I needed something a bit bigger since my 2 daughters, now 6 and 9, were getting too big for the back seat. And with the Integra's odometer pushing 110K, I wanted to get something more reliable before winter set in.

My initial preference was a BMW 3 series since it was seemed like it would be more fun to drive and I thought it was better looking. I had an uneasy feeling that moving up to a 5 series would make me old before my time. Funny, but now that I am have my 2000 528i, I think it looks better than the 3 series, which looks puny to me now.

One reason I shopped so long for this car is that I wanted a CD player in the cabin, not the trunk. I seriously looked at the Audi 4 and 6 class; and the Saab G3 and G5. The smaller cars had in-dash CD players, but the larger cars have it only in the trunk. Seems like some kind of conspiracy. 

Since I settled on the bigger car (I guess I love my kids more than than the extra 10 grand), it wasn't hard to settle on the BMW. It felt more luxurious than the Saab (which felt cheap) and handled better than the Audi (I'm 44 and it made me feel like I was 64).

I still pressed hard to get the CD player in the front; the first two BMW sales agents I talked to said it wasn't available. But I have a friend who knows some people inside BMW and he told me there was a glovebox-CD option. BMW put me in touch with a sales rep. who was willing to talk about it. He told me there had been reliability problems (CD skipping) with the glove box changer but it would be covered by warranty so if I had problems, I could switch to the trunk player. So I ordered.

In September '99 there was a six-week backlog for this model. The good news was that I was going to get a slightly enhanced model -- a Steptronic transmission was now standard. That's an automatic transmission with a kind of pseudo-manual mode. You can "lock" the gears in one, two or three and shift manually (no foot pedal required; its center-console lever controlled). It seemed like a cool thing to have but I have never found any use for it.

When I finally got the car, it looked super, felt great and runs beautifully. It is so much quieter than almost any other car I've been in, I was stunned. The sound system is great (I'm sure the quiet engine has something to do with that). But they let me down on the glove-box changer. They delivered it with the CD changer in the trunk and told me they were going to re-design it. That was in November. I'm still waiting (last promise was Feb. 1; a promise not kept). One pleasant surprised on the sound system: the radio reception is dramatically better than in my Integra. I live 40 miles north of NYC and can pick up many stations cleanly that were marred by static in my Acura; the antenna, actually, 3 antenna, are in the rear-view mirror.

I've put 6,000 miles on it in the 3.5 months I've had it and not a single problem. The cupholders could be better designed: the first day my coffee mug went flying on the first sharp turn (I have since found a coffee mug that fits better and have had no more spills). And the cupholders are placed right in front of the internal temperature sensor, which confuses the car's auto-adjusting temperature controls. It tries to cool off an already cold car when my hot coffee is sitting there.

I love driving sporty cards and the 528i is fun to drive. It feels so solid and is so responsive (maybe not as responsive as a true sports car, but responsive enough for someone who cares most about being safe). I was also pleased the last few weeks when we were hit with several snow storms that the combination of traction control and ABS gave me good control in the snow and slush. I have the sport package, which means you get more solid tires and a more sporty suspension, so that may have something to do with the great handling. 

All in all, this car is a real treat to own and ride in. And I'm glad I got the bigger car; not only can my daughters ride comfortably, they're happy to go on long trips now.

UPDATE on Feb 22, 2003, 3 years later.

I've got 73,000 miles on the car and not a single problem. I did find it difficult to drive during snow storms, so I bought snow tires and that made a HUGE difference; definitely get snow tires if you must drive in the snow. 




            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<