DOC>
<DOCID> 22186 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec-Photo-Cameras-All-Kodak_DC-3400 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-3C8B-457B569A-3A4BED26-prod3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            The DC-3400 is quite simple to use. Almost all configuration of this camera is performed through menus that show up on the LCD on the back of the camera. These menus are crisp and colorful and are a pleasant surprise.  You would think the menus would be boring and technical, but they use helpful icons and interesting fonts. It takes a few minutes to learn what the icons stand for, but once you have that down, it is easy to use. The only problem with the LCD is it's placement. It is positioned along the left side of the camera and is easily smudged if you aren't careful when you pick up the camera. I hope Kodak moves the LCD to a more central location on future cameras. Along with a set of buttons used to navigate the menus and browse your pictures, is a task-based wheel. This wheel allows you to switch between 4 tasks:
* capture (take pictures)
* review (look at your pictures, either on the LCD or through the TV-out connection)
* connect (for transferring pictures from the camera to the PC)
* camera setup (more settings than you probably care to use)

The LCD can be used as a viewfinder, but it isn't the greatest. The processor in the camera just can't keep up with full motion video.  I find the viewfinder window works the best.

I have to mention that the lens cap bugs me a bit. If you bump the cap while putting the camera in a bag, it usually falls off.  While this isn't a big deal, it is annoying.

If you buy this camera you will need to buy a larger memory card. Kodak seems to ship their cameras with different size memory cards, but most likely you will only get an 8 meg card with your camera. This is simply not enough. 
If you shoot on the highest quality/highest resolution, you will get about 12 pictures on an 8 meg card. Whether or not you need to shoot at these quality settings is a matter of personal preference. I recommend getting at least a 48 MB card, which will cost another $70-$110. 
I usually shoot with this camera set to its highest quality and standard resolution and I easily get 170 pictures on the 48 meg card. 
If you were to print the pictures taken using the highest resolution, you will need 11&quot;x17&quot; paper.  Not many people need pictures this large :)

A counter on top of the camera displays the minimum number of pictures remaining, based on your current quality and resolution settings.
The interesting thing about digital cameras is that if you have 50 pictures left, you really have at least 50 pictures left. Depending on how well the pictures compress into .jpeg images, you may have 60 pictures left or even more. If you are taking pictures of the sky or people skiing, the pictures will compress well and you will get lots more pictures onto your memory card. Don't think that the compression will leave you with blocky images though. You can actually see
individual needles on the pictures we took of this year's Christmas tree.

As mentioned in some other reviews, close ups with this camera are not good. When I say close up, I mean trying to take pictures of items within 1 foot of the camera. Those images usually end up blurry. There is a close up lens kit that you can buy for this camera and I am eager to try it.

Don't worry too much about battery life.  Regular AA batteries should last at least 100 pictures, but I recommend getting the Kodak rechargeables that they make for their cameras.  They charge rapidly and don't cost that much.  I keep a set of regular AA batteries in my camera bag and pop them in when the rechargeables go dead. They get swapped back out when I can find an outlet to charge up the rechargeables.

A slight drawback is the time it takes to write a picture to the memory card. You can't take more than a handful of pictures consecutively. 
Sometimes you may try to take a picture and it simply won't let you for a few more seconds until there is room in the buffers.

The software you load onto your computer for this camera is great. Once installed, your camera shows up along with your C: drive and the desktop in Windows Explorer. To transfer pictures onto your computer, just drag and drop. There is even a preview mode that displays &quot;thumbnails&quot; of the pictures while they are still on the camera.

The best feature of this camera is the TV-out. This feature of the camera is absolutely amazing. Wherever I take my camera, we always end up hooking it up to the TV and reviewing the days activities. After cake and presents at the birthday party, you attach a single cable to the TV and the whole family can look at the pictures together. This is especially stunning when you have a large TV. Compare holding a 4&quot;x6&quot; photograph 1 week later to instantly viewing your photos on a widescreen television. 

Finally, a couple of words about the Kodak DC-280. The DC-280 is the older
version of the DC-3400. The DC-280 has been out for quite awhile, but I still think it may be a better purchase than the DC-3400.  There are only a few minor differences between the cameras.
- Different color. The DC-3400 is a brighter silver with light gray grips
- Longer lens cap cord on the DC-3400 
- The lens cap seems to stay on better on the DC-3400

Other than these few things, the cameras seem identical. They have the same menus, same resolution and quality settings, and the same physical layout. You may be able to find a DC-280 on clearance now that the DC-3400 is out. Some versions of the DC-280 come with the rechargeable batteries I mentioned earlier.  If you decide on this camera, buy whichever version you can get the better deal on.<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<