DOC>
<DOCID> 22216 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1989_Mitsubishi_Montero </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_79455686276 </URL>
<TEXT>
            This is the only vehicle I've owned, that I can honestly say, is virtually trouble free. We always have two vehicles and this SUV has lasted through three other cars, including a Toyota that had less miles on it than this Montero does when it "died." The ONLY problem that we've had with this SUV was totally our fault and could have been easily avoided (I'll get to that later).

NEGATIVES
First off, if you want performance or good gas mileage, don't get this (or any) SUV. It is not a great accelerator and I've joked about my Montero doing "60 in 6 minutes." On steep grades it is slow. The turning radius is not good at all (my father-in-law's F150, long bed has a much better turning radius). These SUVs are truck based, so they do ride like a truck, and because it is a tall vehicle with a high center of gravity, it does not corner without "roll," even at low speed. The only thing that really bothers me is that it shifts erratically while climbing steep grades or while in cruise on anything other than perfectly flat road.

NICE FEATURES
For a truck based SUV it has a more comfortable ride than you would think and the driver's side, hydrolic seat is a nice touch.

The space in this SUV is great. We put all our camping gear, our large dog, and two kids in it with room to spare and you'd be hard pressed to find another SUV with more, or even as much space.

The Montero is quiet at highway speeds. Unlike other SUVs we've had or driven, we can talk at a normal level while driving on the freeway. There are a few squeaks and rattles, but that comes with age and hard use.

I like the ride hight, before the new F250s & F350s came out this was the tallest thing on the road besides anything that had been custommized/raised, but you can definetly see over the top of most vehicles on the road.

THIS IS ONE TOUGH SUV
The nice thing about the SUVs made during that time was that they were made when trucks were still trucks and SUVs were still "utility" vehicles. This SUV was made to be used hard and we have: 

We bought this '89 Montero used in '99 for $5k. It had 134k on it when we bought it. We have used and abused this SUV, have put 100k miles on it in three years, and, except for once, it just keeps on going and going. The time we pushed it too far was when we took it over a LONG, STEEP grade in HOT weather when we knew it needed a new thermostat (it was stuck closed), and it badly needed to have the radiator flushed. Well, as you may have guessed, we cracked the heads and the radiator "sprang a leak." We had it repaired and it is still running strong and we haven't had anymore problems since (we sure won't do that again), I feel it can easily do another 100k miles.

We have pulled a loaded 2 stall horse trailer with it all the way from San Diego to Fresno without any overheating or problems (just slow going over the grades), NOTE: the brakes on this horse trailer had been changed from electric to "inertia" brakes, as mid-sized SUVs are not equipped with the electrical hookups for trailers of this size, otherwise this would not have been legal, and I would not recommend anyone doing this (we only did it because we were in a very tight pinch and I would not want to do it again).
 
We use it for our many back country camping trips on very rough "roads" which requires 4WD, and good ground clearance, which all these old stock Monteros have standard (the only change we made was to install larger, off-road tires).
 
This SUV has heavy duty bumpers. We have been rear ended twice - one of which the car that hit us had to be towed away and the damage to our Montero was not even noticeable unless you pointed it out (the bumper was pushed in ever so slightly). In the other accident there was no damage at all to our Montero, and the other vehicle had significant damage.
 
All in all, if you need a reliable, tough, hard working SUV that can take abuse, then I highly recommend these old Monteros. 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<