DOC>
<DOCID> 22564 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Toyota_Avalon </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_102821367428 </URL>
<TEXT>
            We stumbled on the Toyota Avalon by chance. Having been impressed with the spaciousness and performance of a 2003 Camry LE rental car we dutifully evaluated the LE, SE and XLE at our local Toyota dealer, and then sat down at the salesman&#146s table with the intention of politely kissing him off. My wife spotted an Avalon XLS on the showroom floor, and we fell in love with it immediately. A test drive in a used model followed, and several hours later we had negotiated a 4-year lease on the fully loaded, cinnamon red 2003 XLS with leather bucket seats, lacking only a navigation system.

We are accustomed to quite sporty sedans. Recent ownership/leases have included a Buick Regal GS with supercharged engine, three Saabs (9000 and 9-3), an Olds Aurora, a Mercury Mystique GS, and a Maserati Biturbo Spyder. The Avalon is sometimes disparaged as a Japanese Buick, and indeed there are many conceptual similarities. We, to be contrary, have a very high opinion of the Buick Regal, and the Avalon is even better in almost every respect.

I do not know of any car that provides the spacious interior of the Avalon in such a compact exterior form. While American cars invariably come in bulky packages with compromised interiors, the Avalon is literally huge inside. One or two reviews compare the seating accommodation to being on the flight deck of the starship Enterprise, and this is not an exaggerated sentiment, given the wide windshield and the recessed, trendy dashboard with very large instrument graphics. Interior and exterior finish are of luxury car standards. The JBL audio system is excellent (aided by the hushed interior), and it has some clever features without being gimmicky. 

The silence at speed is almost eerie. Even on ridged concrete sections of our local interstate, tire patter and hiss are muted. Wind noise is minimal to 65 mph, and moderate at greater speeds. The engine is virtually inaudible in the city, and provides a pleasant background noise at speed. The Avalon has only a 4-speed automatic transmission (the Camry can have a 5-speed automatic) but gear changes are silky smooth and unnoticed. I frequently use the gearshift button to switch from overdrive to third gear (part of my manual transmission tendencies), and the change in engine note is barely audible. The ride is so compliant that I can easily put the back of the passenger seat down flat and take a nap while my wife drives.

Performance is brisk and smooth, braking superb. Wet traction with the Michelin 16&#148 tires is better than I am accustomed to. We live in Kentucky. A country road with undulating curves and quick transitions from right to left or vice versa will give the impression that the Avalon is challenged and unsure. It does not have the sure-footedness of the Mystique, whose European origins ensured that its four corners stuck to the road surface as if coated with crazy glue, but if you put aside your uncertainties and really push the car the Avalon demonstrates very creditable handling. Seat of the pants feel is, however, far removed from that of a genuine sports sedan (many German cars artificially improve the driver&#146s sense of confidence by simply making the seat very hard), but the Avalon is also far removed from its competitors&#146 harshness, noise and vibration. The steering feel is &#147linear&#148, and I find it completely predictable and precise without being heavy or numb. You just have to ignore that sense that the car is too soft to handle well, and you will find that in fact it does.

I have just returned from a Kentucky-Florida 1600 mile round trip. On relatively quiet interstates traffic flow was at 70 - 80 mph, and the variable valve timing (VVT) on our 2003 XLS was remarkably smooth and comforting. Spurts to 85 or 90, however, were rather gradual (but still very smooth), and I was reminded of traditional American cars with their low-end torque but running out of oomph at higher speeds. Part of the problem is the 4-speed auto, where manually clicking off the overdrive was necessary for even modest acceleration at these speeds. By contrast our Saab 9-3 Turbo thrusts you into the seat as it rushes to 100 and far beyond (albeit with judicial downshifts to hit the turbo power band). On a number of two-lane highways I declined several passing opportunities because the oomph just isn't sufficient. 

Otherwise the car is a dream. After a 12-hour drive I emerged relatively fresh and with no aching joints or buzzy head. Seat comfort, however, could be improved. Toyota, like every other Japanese manufacturer, needs to beg, borrow or steal Chrysler&#146s design for power seats. The range of tilt on the Avalon seat squab is inadequate, and you have to sit on the seat rather than in it. Raising the front of the seat to support the back of your knees is impossible, and the seatback does not angle far enough forward for those of us who like the sit-up-and-beg driving position. The pneumatic lumbar support presses too low on the back for anyone other than those who slouch. The Avalon partially redeems itself by having a superb dead pedal for the left foot, a feature which many sports sedans omit completely!  The seat is not uncomfortable; it simply could be much better.

Styling is always subjective, and both of us like the comparatively understated exterior. The trend among Japanese and Korean designs is towards bulky or undistinguished rear ends, and the Avalon achieves the latter. American and European cars seem much better integrated behind the rear wheels. Our Avalon had the trunk lid spoiler as an option, and this must be the only example of a car where the spoiler actually improves its appearance! Unspectacular styling or not, the trunk is huge and very easy to load because of the large opening. We always have our Saab hatchback for serious loads, so the inability to fold down the Avalon&#146s rear seatbacks for larger items is not a big deal. Nor is the lack of a coin holder in the cabin &#150 we just use a plastic bag to hold our change and store it in one of the many cute cubby holes. I think everyone knows that the front cupholders get in the way of the transmission lever, and instead we simply use the cupholders that project from the rear seat armrest. Problem solved (sort of).

Even more subjective is &#147value&#148. My wife and I have luxury tastes but, at best, a near-luxury budget. With budgets in mind we nearly bought another Buick Regal GS, with a potential cost savings of almost $10K. The value equation, superior emotional appeal and a more sophisticated overall design pushed us over to the Avalon. Our dealership experience was comparatively pleasant, and the negotiation towards establishing a capital cost for lease calculation purposes was active but non-confrontational. We even used Toyota&#146s own suggested format on the internet for calculating our monthly costs when we selected specific lease terms and capital costs, so we knew what our target figures were going to be before we returned to the dealership. We don&#146t claim to be experienced negotiators, but we were satisfied with the deal, and I presume they were as well! We received a brief but useful dealership presentation on some specifics of their service department. There was a moment of tension in the Finance Manager&#146s office when we realized that the lease rates did not include gap insurance, but they had previously folded in (with our approval) acquisition fees and the security deposit into the monthly rate, so we felt very fairly treated overall. We have been back for service once, when it was obvious that one of the headlight beams was angled too low. This turned out to be an assembly error, and was rapidly fixed. Notwithstanding this, I left the service department frustrated by the difficulty I had in getting them to observe the problem -- they seemed more interested in when the next work shift would be starting! We hope this was an aberration.


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<