DOC>
<DOCID> 23847 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec_Cameras-Digital_MustekDigitall-Mustek_VDC-200 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-162F-2605CE2-3A2129BB-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought this camera during a brief period when I was really enthusiastic about the Internet. I was going to plaster my home page with astoundingly clever touched-up photos of my mates with horns sprouting from their heads and stuff like that.

I found this camera ideal for my purposes. I was lucky to get it very cheap indeed for reasons too long to detail, and I was impressed with the clarity of the pictures, even if the level of colour wasn't always what it could have been.

The camera's stock plummeted when I realised how hard it was on batteries. Even with the LCD screen switched off, the thing could eat four high quality AA batteries in one day without too many problems. Its habit of beeping when taking photos was also annoying.

I use this camera when I'm working with amateur dramatics groups. By opening the iris and turning the brightness up to full, you can great pictures of a theatre stage without having to use a flash, which could distract performers. I took pictures for several local productions, and we were pleased with the results (we even added ghostly hands and horns sprouting from actors' heads, it was cool).

As well as the adjustable iris, this Mustek camera has most of the features that you would expect of any modestly-priced traditional camera. There is automatic focussing (it's sadly not possible to adjust the focus manually) and a flash. Unfortunately, the automatic flash is a little abritrary. Bitter experience has taught me to judge for myself whether lighting conditions require flash photography.

The camera itself is quite lightweight but sturdy. The buttons controlling the LCD are well-spaced and large enough to be easy to use. The power button is placed strangely, on the top of the camera. It's very easy to switch it on accidentally, so be sure to follow the instructions and remove the batteries when you're not using it!

This camera also comes with the option to upgrade the number of pictures you can store with cheap memory cards. Unfortunately I have never bothered with these, so I can't really comment on them. The machine's internal memory can store 20 high-resolution images and 50 'standard' resolution images. I have no illusions about my skill as a photographer, and 20 is many more pictures than I am likely to take in a single session. Fifty is a stupidly huge amount, and it must be noted that the standard resolution is more than adequate for web design work.

The pictures taken with this camera are not always of excellent quality, but they provide an excellent basis for post-development tinkering. It's perfect for a beginner in digital photography, and mine was packaged with plenty of easy-to-use software (Iphoto+).

The other main problem, apart from the short battery life, concerns the software. It's easy to download images on to your computer, but you can only transfer one image at a time from the camera software to Iphoto+. This is fine if you're only choosing the best images from a busy session, but if you want to download all your holiday snaps, you're in for a long haul in front of your monitor. If there is an option for copying all the image files into a folder on your hard disk, I've not found it in three years of using the machine.

This is a perfect beginner's camera for its ease of use and modest price. However, you would be well advised to find some reliable rechargeable batteries to power the device, and to work from wall sockets when using it indoors.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<