DOC>
<DOCID> 24178 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec-Photo-Cameras-All-Sony_DSC-S30 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_7717490308 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought this camera as a Christmas gift for my mother, who loves pictures but hates the bother. Since she is a great grandmother and my best friend, I wanted the best for her, and wanted it easy enough so she wouldn't get frustrated by the gadgetry.

This little camera has everything needed for quick image production, without having to pre-set all the special features. It offers a 6 x zoom, which solves most of the problems inherent in point and shoot photography, and a flexible LCD display, which makes it possible to get some unique angles. 

These are the best features of this little camera:

PICTURE QUALITY

Needless to say, I had to run a two week test on this camera to decide whether it would be easy enough to use. I took it to work and terrorized my co-workers, and allowed less experienced photographers to snap a shot or two. The results surprised me; especially with the clarity and color reproduction. I have enlarged some of the images to 8x10 and have lost little in clarity by doing so. Unlike 35 mm photography with an SLR this genre has limitations, and there is less magic in the darkroom than with higher resolution formats.

EASE OF OPERATION

By simplifying some of the features, Sony has improved the user-friendly qualities of this camera. Since this camera does not have the movie MPEG mode (available in the S50), there is less chance of accidentally going into "movie mode" and taking up all the memory on your digital film. Since I rarely use the movie mode on any of my SONY cameras, this seems an advantage to me. (If you want the 3 second movie, move to an S50, or the later Mavica series cameras) There are only two settings for the power on mode; "play" and "still". You take the pictures in the still settings, and edit in the playback settings.

RECORDING IMAGES -MEMORY STICK MEDIA

Unlike the Mavica series, this camera uses only memory sticks. Since I have purchased memory sticks from 32 MB to 64 MB for my other cameras, we have more "film" available.
The camera comes with the 4 MB memory stick , which allows up to 60 images in the lowest setting (e-mail range, 640x 480) but only 4 images in the highest image size (1600x1200). For reproducing images, and printing, I prefer the highest setting, so you see the FIRST accessory needed is a memory stick with better storage capabilities.

Cost may vary, but the best deals are available on internet auctions.

32 MG Memory stick is about $40 -$50
64 MB Memory Sticks are about $100 

OTHER USEFUL FUNCTIONS

MACRO This mode will appear (check your manual) when you press the FOCUS button to the left of the LCD screen. What this means is that you can take pictures of items as close as 1 3/16 inches. If you need to photograph items for Resale, you will find this an extremely useful function. 

PORTRAIT MODE allows you to program for the orientation of the image, without having to turn the camera sideways, although the flexible LCD screen will allow more flexibility in the camera orientation to the subject matter.

LANDSCAPE MODE will put it back in the lateral image format.

VIEWING IMAGES ON TV SCREEN

The camera allows your pictures to be seen on TV screen using the suppled AV jacks. This may be painful for the relatives forced to watch but it will be useful for you in editing and saving images, if the LCD screen is just not big enough for you!

COPYING IMAGES

You can copy from one memory stick to another, if your work is FABULOUS. If it is average, as mine tends to be most of the time, simply reformat.

USING YOUR PC

The camera allows you to connect directly with the USB interface (and pre-loading the software) Mom's computer does not have a USB interface, so I have purchased a Sony Floppy Adapter (and software) to allow her to process her images with standard photo editing software (any that supports JPEG images). I recommend this method to ANYONE using Sony products, unless all your equipment is Sony and you can afford the VAIO line. (Since I use several different models of digital cameras, I need the format to be universal) 

THE BAD STUFF

This is a short list and is based on the automatic flash. I have been taking and processing images for 30 years, and have always preferred natural light. The harsh flash eliminates the natural colors, although your pictures will be IN FOCUS. I still prefer an SLR for the integrity of the image, although you lose something when your camera weighs a ton and requires a lot of fiddling before you can shoot the image. So the choice is losing spontaneity, and gaining quality. Of course you can set the flash or turn it off, again making the process a little more complicated. 

RECOMMENDATION

There are few cameras around that produce this good an image with as little work, mental or physical. It can be taken anywhere, and is sturdy and solid. The LCD folds close to the camera to protect it from scratches. It stands up to some bouncing around and can be pulled out of your pocket (large pocket) on a trip. It has become one of my favorite cameras for every day use, and I think it will be wonderful for my mother, who has joined this century with great enthusiasm. ROCK ON Granniemose! You are now armed and dangerous!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<