DOC>
<DOCID> 25463 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Saturn_SL </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_6759485060 </URL>
<TEXT>
            This car (an LS2) was not intended for me.  My wife wanted it; got it; loved it.  It did a great job replacing her decrepit Plymouth Sundance.  Then, it suddenly became 'my' car when I started a 50-mile-one-way daily commute.

The car worked as a commuter car.  It was easy on gas and maintenance, performed decently on the highway, and wasn't too uncomfortable for those long drives home.

OK, so it is small. It is not the most comfortable, but then we didn't buy a luxury sedan.  We bought a Saturn.  We knew this going in.

Thank goodness for the SL2's bigger engine. I really feel for those people who either don't want or can't afford the 1.9-liter engine (the same basic engine as the standard 1.6, but with a dual overhead cam to drive up the horsepower).  You see, I'm a firm believer that when buying a car you should buy the biggest engine available.  Why?  The obvious reason, and in a smaller car it is essential, is ability to move the car.  We're not talking about being able to melt your tires here, we're looking at the prospect of "Can I merge into the lane of traffic before that truck impales itself in my trunk?"

A second benefit to my bigger engine credo is that the car will be more dependable -- a more powerful engine works less hard than the smaller one and, thus, breaks down less frequently.  The third benefit, and one that is the least important, is resale value.

So back to our car specifically -- the 1.9L runs fairly well.  I've had no real mechanical problems with the engine, transmission or drivetrain.  I did have an electrical problem in the center console -- though I blame that on the aftermarket CD changer my dealership sold and installed.  They replaced my radio and did something else and proclaimed it good as new.  Not exactly, but it works.

The daytime running light indicator began flickering while driving, but only very intermittently.  I actually wasn't even sure it was flashing -- though maybe I was blinking. Asked the dealership to check it out and, would you believe, they didn't find anything out of the ordinary.  Now that the car is over 36K miles, the flashing is obvious and it isn't worth making a big deal out of.

We've had some rattles in the passenger compartment.  The engine fan squeaks very noticeably.  The dash lights tend to flicker occassionally.  These are the little things that bug me, but don't seem to make the car perform any better or worse.

The interior has held up remarkably well for such a lower-level vehicle.  The exterior, too, has done well, except the front plastic bumper gets nicks and scrapes easily and the pinstriping is particularly vulnerable near the door locks.

The car doesn't work too well with a child car seat -- getting the little one in and out requires a bit of contortionism.  The compact nature of the car is a little unsettling, but then our other car is a Blazer that is night and day in comparison.  Again, you get what you pay for.

This is a good commuter car.  Not so great for a family, unless it is a very small family with a limited budget.  For singles and couples, it is a great simple little car.

And who can overlook the Saturn 'experience'???  For us, it wasn't as magical as they make it sound.  No picture to put on the bulletin board (that disappointed me, but my wife didn't mind), not even a logo item to speak of.  However, the SINGLE BEST THING about buying a Saturn is the no-haggle pricing*.  Here it is, take it or leave it.  Oh, but wait, there's an asterisk.  They DO HAGGLE, but not on the prices of the car.  They'll work with you on the price of a trade-in.  After we balked at the trade-in price for my wife's pitiful Plymouth, they upped their offer to make the deal sweeter.  I never expected that.  Of course, we bit.

The rest of the 'experience' has been hit and miss.  Service had been a shade above poor, though some of the people I've dealt with in other parts of the dealership have been more together.

One last reason to like Saturn -- they support my college fraternity's annual fundraising bike ride across America to support a foundation called Push America which promotes a greater understanding of people with developmental disabilities.  Thanks from a member of Pi Kappa Phi.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<