DOC>
<DOCID> 26575 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Toyota_4Runner </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_87650897540 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Toyota is apparently getting rid of the Landcruiser soon, leaving the 4Runner and the Sequoia as it's two truck based SUVs. The 4Runnner gets a bump up in size to make it closer to the soon to be missing TLC. I assume this is because the Landcruiser-based Lexus LX (based on the old TLC) isn't "big" enough for a full-sized hungry market and they want two Lexi SUVs (the GX based on the 4R and a new model based on the Sequoia) besides the non-truck Camry-based RX. The 03 4Runner has the same structure, engine and suspension as the new Lexus GX (as well as a 7/8 size TLC sold overseas). The GX is winning all kinds of awards. This new 4Runner has the goods at a Toyota price.

I opted for the 4Runner over choices like the Audi Avant, Volvo wagons and GMC Envoy. I considered waiting for the VW Tourareg, but the price on that was $5-8K more. The Envoy was so cheesy and rattly inside with tons of bad plastic and noises that seemed ominous in a new vehicle. The Audi was sweet, but smaller and pricey.

I chose the 4Runner, nervous about it's gas consumption. Well, it does suck up some gas (I have been getting 16+ mpg) but many of my other choices were only somewhat better. The Audi, for example, was listed in the 20/21 mpg range, so I don't feel so bad. Plus the 4Runner can use normal grade gas which is cheaper than the premium fuel that turbos demand.

My 4Runner has the rip-roaring V8 that comes in Sequoias and Landcruisers. The 4R is much smaller than these so the acceleration is almost endless. I would have been happy with the V6 (that apparently has more hp but less torque) - but they aren't available yet. The five speed auto is smooth and I do not find the gear shifter as distracting as some other reviewers do.

The Sport model comes with the XREAS suspension that keeps the truck level in cornering and I have found that there is WAY less body roll than in other SUVs I have been in. This is not a car-like ride, but it is much smoother on the road than most truck based (and therefore off-road able) vehicles.

The exterior styling was one of my least favorite things on the 4R. There is plastic body-cladding around the wheel wells that seems to be bitten from the god-awful Chevy Avalanche. The Limited doesn't have this, but the Limited is a big step up in price. There is also a hood scoop on the Sport version that i was not sure about. In the month I have had it, the looks have grown on me and others have commented that they liked it.

The interior is well laid out with lots of storage and much more shoulder room than in older 4Runners. The upgraded JBL stereo is a boomer with the six disc "feed em in the dash one at a time" CD player. The cartridge loading CD changers (like in my Passat wagon) just bite because the discs rarely get changed. The interior is very nice and I like the convenient steering wheel mounted stereo and cruise controls. The wheel even telescopes and tilts. Great cupholders and all that.

The one big oddity is that there are no vanity mirrors inside the 4Runner. There are two visors above the driver and two above the passenger which is a nice feature, but no freaking make-up mirrors. Maybe this is a minor quibble, but it really stands out when every other detail on the vehicle seems handled to near perfection.

There is a separate backseat audio system that comes with the upgraded stereo, but you need to get the additional cost wireless headphones to hear it. I didn't get the headphones so I don't know how that works.

The cargo area of the Sport model does not come with the two-level loading area, contrary to what some publications mention. The seats fold well and the 4R held enough stuff that I took 3 full sized male friends on a snowboarding trip with all the gear and still had room to see out the back. 

The 4wheel drive system worked well in the snow, but I did not do any hard core off-roading. I'm sure it is very capable and I will test it further the next time it dumps up in Mammoth.

update as of May 2, 2003

I have just about 5K miles on my '03 4Runner so I thought I would insert some new opinions based on 4 months with the truck.

I really like that there is no external antenna on my 4R. I have switched out and used a ski rack and surfboard rack at least a half dozen times. No antenna on the roof (or on the front fenders either) makes loading up the sports gear extra easy. That is a big plus I never really saw before.

The rear cargo area came with a floormat like section of carpet which is a nice touch. The downside is that the cargo carpet mat is pretty slick. Anything I have back there will slide around. I got a cheap cargo net and that helps. I bought it when I went to pick-up the aftermarket vanity mirror.

The interior carpet is too light. My drivers side mat got stained within the first 2 weeks of ownership. Oh well, things happen. A darker color might hide the stains a bit better.

The rear gate has an automated latch that sucks itself closed with a motor. You do not have to slam it closed. I have finally stopped turning back after shutting the gate, thinking that I need to re-close it. I am not real bright.

The gas mileage is right around 16mpg. I imagine the V6 would be better, but gas in CA is finally back under $2 per gallon (yowza).

The stereo has a great sound, but the max volume is not really loud enough. No, I am not a headbanger. There is no Dio in my CD collection. On a snowboarding trip, we were trying to listen to a stand-up comedy CD but the combination of a quieter than normal disc, wind noise from the sticks on the roof and the gear muffling the cargo area speakers made it hard to hear. Most of the time this has not been a problem.

The upgraded JBL stereo has RDS - a system that displays text from the radio station (if they broadcast it). It is often the station call letters, song title or even stock quotes. Maybe your car already has this, but I found it to be a cool gadget.

The cigarette lighter/cell phone charge is in a kind of weird spot.

Overall I am still very pleased with my choice. People that ride with me always compliment the interior and the ride. I was hesitant about the way it looks, but the feedback from others seems positive. Of course, what are they gonna say, "Thanks for the ride, this truck sure is ugly"?



            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<