DOC>
<DOCID> 27271 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Pontiac_Firebird </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-5DDB-CA4F4E3-38E8F6C9-prod2 </URL>
<TEXT>
            In the middle of February of this year, my parents decided to buy me a car for my b-day. I chose a beautiful Maple Metallic 2000 Firebird. I didn't go with the big engine for insurance reasons. I have had this car almost 2 months now, and will roll 8000 miles by the end of this week. I have not had a problem with the car to this point, and do not see and in the near future. 
The Firebird is a wonderfully made American sports car with a little attitude, and a lot of bite to back it up. I pride myself in knowing I have one of the top two or three fastest V-6 Firebirds in my hometown. Everything about the car screams &quot;Babe-mobile&quot;. For the guys, if you really want a car that will get attention, this is it(same for the girls). My car is named Angel, she is good to me. She handles the corners and straight-a-ways like a dream. I have t-tops, the 500-watt Monsoon sound system, and power everything options. The package without the t-tops is called the 1SC option package. The dark maroon metallic color is offset by the beautiful 16X8 5-spoke aluminum wheels. I have the windows tinted to add a little character to the car.
The pros:
1. This car handles like a dream. For those who want to drive fast down those little backroads without worrying about sliding off the road in the turns, this is the car for you. The stock suspension is plenty to handle most every curve I've found at about 80 mph(not recommending you try it though). There are suspension upgrades that can be down for up to $1000 that will stiffen the suspension and make it handle even better.
2. Power. The little 200 HP V-6 in my car has enough get-up and go to get away from just about any car on the road. It will get you out of tight situations if you need a little more go. Passing people on the highway is a breeze. The top speed I've reached is about 122 mph on a slight decline.
3. The braking and saftey systems are awesome. The four-wheel disc brakes make for very quick stopping along with a top of the line ABS system. Driver and Passenger airbags give you the peace of mind you deserve in that type of car. 
4. Comfort is always a concern in a car like that. It can handle 4 adults as long as you know how to make the seating arrangement. I've even have a 6'7&quot; tall guy in the back seat. Bucket seats all the way around make it a comfortable ride around town. The A/C blows too cold and the heater blows too hot. Five multi-directional air vents on the dash make it easy to control air flow to the back of the car for grumpy riders. 
5. The most amazing thing is the sound system. The 500-watt Monsoon sound system is great. 10 speakers (4-6in mids, 4-tweeters, and 2 4in woofers) being pushed by 500 watts makes listening to any kind of music a treat. The 7-band equalizer allows for adjustments to enjoy any style of music. 
The last thing I really like is the windshield. The rain just pours right off, and I don't use the wipers at night because the angle of the glass allows you to see right through a small thunderstorm.
The Cons:
1. OK, first off, its a sports car. The gas mileage isn't going to be the best in the world, but that is a combination of a lead foot and gears for racing. The advertised mpg is 20/city and 30/highway. I have an average mpg of 25 or 26 every tank full. I drive 80 on the highway and about the same in the city. On trips down the highway, no city driving, i have pushed 30 or 31 mpg. 
2. The low stance of the car is a problem for most people. They are used to not having to slow down going into driveways and such. Again, its a sports car, get used to it. 
3. Washing the car is a treat to me. The only gripe I have is the drainage problem out of the taillights and the headlights. i recommend drying the car and then driving around the block to get all the water to come out of hiding. Then go over the car again with a towel and its spotless. 
4. The back seat is not a place for people on long drives. Anything over 2 hours becomes a terrible trip because of all the griping from the back. Little kids can ride back there with no problem at all.
5. Fishtailing through curves and turns becomes a problem when you don't intentionally do it. I have only experienced this one or two times, but only on slick streets or wet weather. This type of problem occurs about the same amount in other cars in these conditions, but not as dramatic. I've done 180's in it by accident before. 
Other than these mentioned cons, I have no gripes at all about my car. I would recommend this car to anyone thinking about buying a sports car. But if you want something that looks good, gets good gas mileage, and can carry people, try the rest of the awesome Pontiac line of cars.
<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<