DOC>
<DOCID> 27769 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec-Photo-Cameras-All-Canon_PowerShot_S100 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-13D0-48F7F306-3A54DA33-prod3 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My favorite cameras have been the Elph series from Canon. I had one of the original Elphs, but had a lot of problems with it after I dropped it :-) Canon never was able to fix it after that, but the pictures I got out of it before that were great. The coolest thing was the size; I could take that camera any where. As good as some other cameras are, they're useless if you don't have it with you. Form factor is now one of my major criterion when picking a camera.

I waited for a digital Elph for a long time. I actually bought the Elph 2 in between, but didn't really use it much. When the S100 was released I finally took the plunge into the digital world.

I love this camera! I have never taken so many pictures in my life (some of them are even good). It's really easy to take pictures, the included software is good, and you can get standard drivers that let it work with all sorts of other software.

The image stitching feature is interesting and fairly easy to use. I got some good results on a recent trip to the Grand Canyon. The LCD screen is pretty usable, even though it's tiny. There are some nice image viewing features on the camera so you can discard pictures that didn't come out well. The image quality is pretty good, although it usually needs a little balancing in an image editor. The USB connection works well. Transferring pictures to the computer is pretty painless.

One of my least favorite things about the previous Elph cameras was the flash, which was weak at best. The flash on the S100 is surprisingly powerful for something that small. Since you can post-produce your pictures in an image editing program, a lot of the problems with the small flash can be fixed up. No more red eye, thank you very much!

I have also had pretty good results printing my photos on my HP Deskjet 932C on photo paper. The results are much better than I thought possible with a relatively low-cost printer.

Finally, this camera has an incredibly high cool factor. The size, the digital features, and the stainless steel attract a lot of attention. It's a lot of fun to take pictures with it. I know a few people who have bought it after seeing mine.

The bad things about this camera are pretty nit picky, and some will apply to many other digital cameras as well.

The LCD screen isn't too useful in bright or low light situations. There are cases when a picture will come out pretty well because the flash is decent, but you can't see anything in the LCD. You can always use the viewfinder.

The battery will only last for about a day (obviously depending on how many pictures you take, and especially how many flash pictures you take). It charges up pretty quickly, though. Usually it's good to go in about an hour.

You need a good sized compact flash card to store enough pictures. I had a 16 MB card that held about 25 pictures. I had to take my notebook computer on vacation with me :-) That's not really practical in most cases. This camera also doesn't support those IBM micro drives, so the memory gets pretty expensive. I would kill for a DataPlay enabled Elph.
I just got a 64MB card, and hopefully that should cover most situations.

The size can sometimes be a negative. You have to be careful with this camera, because it's pretty easy to forget you have it on your belt. It's also tough for people with big hands. I find when other people use my camera, the pictures will sometimes be slightly blurred (maybe they don't hold it steady, or they don't get the hang of the half-click to set the focus). Still, you can carry this camera anywhere and that more than makes up for the little bit of extra care you have to take.

Lastly, you need to be aware that there aren't a lot of picture resolutions to choose from. And if you want to change most of the options, you have to switch it into manual mode. This is a bit of a pain when you just want to take a quick picture. I think they could do a lot to improve this in future versions of the camera. The good thing is that most of the time, the standard mode is exactly what you need.

Overall, I think this is probably the most fun I've ever had with a camera.
<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<