DOC>
<DOCID> 27811 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec-Photo-Cameras-All-Canon_PowerShot_S100 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_26631900804 </URL>
<TEXT>
            haha, just kidding. But really, this camera is so tiny it will slide into any pocket easily.

It's been over a month since I've had this camera. I was kind of wary about buying such a small camera but I thought I'd try it out to see if we'd be compatible. And were we ever!

The first thing you notice IS the size, or lack of it. So you don't have an excuse for leaving your buddy at home. It's sitting in my purse, a small purse might i add, right now! :) But good things DO come in small packages. How they packed 2.1 Megapixels in here is beyond me.

This is a point and shoot camera with the bonus of a small 2x optical zoom lens. So don't be complaining that it lacks features. If you are, buy a BIGGER camera and be prepared to LUG it around. I use this camera to capture memories from trips, parties and use them for e-mail, websites, auctions. Works like a charm. I do agree that the 8MB compact flash card is pretty small so I went on eBay and got a 16MB card for a few more bucks (get Lexar. they work very very well). I also love to use the exceptionally nice LCD (the best I've seen) often so I drained the battery rather quickly. No prob, just went to eBay again to solve that prob. So I got extra memory and an extra battery for this camera, well worth it considering I have a camera that makes everyone go "oooh" and "ahhh" at its mere sight :) Hehe, what a charmer. It takes fabulous pictures. The clarity and sharpness is surprising, provided that you set it in the proper mode(s). Flash doesn't go beyond 10 feet or so but what do you expect? Macro mode is helpful with a tripod so you don't have to worry about your hands shaking and a blurry shot. The camera is also very fast. It powers up fast, snaps pictures fast, and you can view your images fast. Horray! I hate waiting.

Too bad this camera didn't come with a case, since it is rather EXPENSIVE! I use my old coin purse (YES! my COIN PURSE) for the case and it fits the camera, extra memory and extra battery! Too cool! I never thought I'd use that coin purse as a camera case.

I got the new iBook (read my review) and connected the elph to it to download. I use the canon photoshop plugin to download the pics to the program (Photoshop is a MUST for photoediting. I have PS6). Downloads in a breeze via the USB cable (thank God it's not serial since I'd be waiting till my hair turned grey). I do suggest you use the default picture resolution setting on the camera. Sure you won't maximize the use of the memory (since it'll only fit 26 in this mode w/my 16Meg card) but if you reduce the pictures' resolution or crop them, etc, you'll wind up with better quality looking pictures compared to if you just used the lowest 640 x 480 setting. See, the good thing i like about using this camera with my iBook is that I didn't even need to install all those programs that came with the CD. All I needed was to download (off the Canon site) the small plugin to put into the Photoshop plugin folder. Easy as that! You choose, one small plugin or one PROGRAM which will eat up valuable disk space!?

All in all, I give this camera a rave review. Paired with my iBook, I couldn't have asked for a better combo. This camera is extremely portable and does its job so well. It doesn't feel flimsy as well, so you know you're definitely holding a high quality piece of equipment. I do suggest you buy and extra memory card and battery (go to eBAY!! they have a lot of dutch auctions for these.) And DO tote this camera around wherever you want. You never know when you'll have another Kodak, er, umm, i mean CANON, moment.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<