DOC>
<DOCID> 27914 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1998_Lexus_LS_400 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_48553954948 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I went shopping for a new car this weekend to replace my trusty but aging 1994 Cadillac DeVille. I'm happy with my DeVille, but at the point where I can trade and (hopefully) get something for it or keep it and run it into the ground. I was also motivated by many automakers offering 0.0% financing. Unfortunately, Cadillac has dropped the 0.0% offer and gone back to standard financing as of November 18th and, despite my current car's fantastic condition, the dismal offers for my trade are kind of forcing me to look at used vehicles. Two contenders for my dollars are a 1999 Cadillac Seville SLS and a 1998 Lexus LS400. This is a review of the Lexus.

I'm a lifetime fan of Cadillacs, so why, may you ask, am I looking at a Lexus? Two reasons - Lexus' stellar reputation and good resale value.  The vehicle I checked out this weekend is a 1998 Lexus LS400. This particular car had 40,200 miles on it, but you wouldn't know it by the car's excellent condition. This example had a metallic cabernet finish and a neutral leather interior, an unusual but striking combination. Unfortunately, it was marred by a "gold package." Mercifully, the gold was on the car in moderation and didn't look tacky. 

The 1998 Lexus LS400 is powered by a  4.0L  V-8 giving 290 hp@ 6100 RPM and 290 ft./lbs. torque @ 4250 RPM. The engine is mated to a  5-Speed Automatic Overdrive. Reported fuel economy is 19 MPG city and  25 MPG highway. It is shod with 225/60R16 blackwall tires mounted on standard alloy wheels.   

The exterior of the Lexus LS can be described as attractive but somewhat bland. Its styling kind of apes an older Mercedes S-Class but is sized somewhere between the S and E-Class.  The horizontal slat grille gives the 1995-2000 LS a slightly cleaner and somewhat more upscale appearance compared to the prior 1990-1994 generation. The interior, however is where Lexus really stands-out.

The leather and man-made materials are top-drawer. Really. I'd hate to say this, but my Cadillac looked and felt more like a Chevrolet in comparison. The instrument panel, console, steering wheel and door panels are accented by genuine wood trim. I'm not sure what the wood is, but I think it's maple. The analog gauges are illuminated with a stunning bright three dimensional effect that is just now being imitated by other automakers. An LED 'information center' appears below the gauges giving information about everything from fuel economy, oil life and tire pressure. The only thing  I didn't like about the info center was the choices of colors - a grayish-yellow background with dark gray font. It kind of reminded me of a cheap digital watch I had when I was sixteen. The info center in my Cadillac is blue-green on a black background - more pleasant to look at.  

The buttons and switches have a nice 'feel' to them. The AM/FM stereo cassette/CD gave crisp, clear sound. One thing I really like about the LS is a little covered cubby hole over the glovebox for the CD changer. The CD  changer is even t rimmed with genuine wood. Nice touch! Having the CD changer up front is infinitely more convenient than having it in the trunk and makes it less prone to damage by shifting cargo or rear-end collisions.  The car has two-position memory seats for both passenger and driver. How many times have you taken your car to a mechanic or let you girlfriend/wife drive and your seat setting are all out of whack? No problem. Just press a button and your seat is back in its proper position. This is great for me since my girlfriend and I are of dramatically different proportions. I'm a rather portly 194 lbs @ 6'0" and she is a very petite 107 lbs @ 5'1".  The steering wheel is positioned electrically by a tiny "joystick" for tilt and telescope. As an aside, I've tried the same feature on a 2000 Cadillac DHS. The movements in the DHS felt a little clunky and the motor gave a slightly louder whine. The Lexus' wheel moved more fluidly and quietly.    The HVAC controls are intuitive. The AC/heater is efficient and effective. I think just about everybody makes a good HVAC system these days. 

I took the car out for a drive and also sat in it as a passenger. I was very impressed with Lexus smooth comfortable ride. The seats felt like my living room recliner. It had a ride more like my Caddy and less like the harsh Teutonic ride of  many Bimmers and Benzes. The 290 hp V-8 accelerated very smoothly. Power was readily available off the line. The car  handled well but felt like it had quite an understeer effect on tight curves. The car braked smoothly and quickly. Bumps and potholes were swallowed up with little protest.

The trunk of the LS is cavernous and...what's this? A full-size spare! Hallelujah! The jack, however, looks a little odd compared to what I'm used to. Under the hood lies the 4.0 V-8 - covered with a stupid false engine cover with the prominent tipsy L and molded-in "cross-over" pipes. I know these things make the engine bay look neater but they're not practical. I'd rather see the actual engine regardless of how ugly or convoluted it may appear.  I know every upscale automaker is doing this, but it's not a trend I like. These covers remind me of those cheap plastic wheel covers with molded in cross-drilled rotors. (Where's the caliper?)

One thing I didn't like about the LS was the placement of the light switch. I'm spending several minutes looking for a pull-switch and finally see it as a tiny switch on a stalk to the left of the steering column. Flipping the switch, I had to go outside to see which lights were illuminated. It took a few tries to find the headlight position. Activating the high beams calls for one to push the stalk forward rather than pull it back. Weird! However, when the headlights are on, they emit a clean white xenon light. The high beams, however, looked like they were ordinary bulbs since they emitted a more yellowish light. I'm also not crazy about the placement of the fuel filler on the right side of the car. It's odd pulling up to the pump with it on that side.

What to do? What to do? I prefer Cadillac's styling and performance yet appreciate Lexus' quality and resale value. Anyway you look at it, the Lexus LS400 makes an excellent used car purchase. Some may argue that the LS400 is a more attractive car than the current LS430 whose looks are a blatant copy of the 1992-1999 Mercedes S-Class. I'll keep Epinions viewers posted when I FINALLY make a decision.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<