DOC>
<DOCID> 28057 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Chevrolet_Impala </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_35430305412 </URL>
<TEXT>
            <b>First, a bit of history about this car:</b>

The creation of the Chevrolet Impala was designed to do two things:  replace the aging design of the Lumina, and replace the long since discontinued Caprice.  The Caprice was Chevy's big four door rear-drive sedan preferred by many law enforcement agencies, but was discontinued in 1996 because it wasn't popular with civilians and the relatively low sales to law enforcement didn't justify its production.  The solution was to make a vehicle suitable for both police work and the average Joe, with the priority being police duty.

However, the Impala differs in two major ways from the police cruisers of old: It only has a V6 engine instead of a V8, and it's front wheel drive instead of rear wheel drive.  The mention of these two things alone are enough to turn off law enforcement agencies to using this car.  So in order to prove the vehicle's worthiness to law enforcement, Chevrolet put the vehicle through a simulated 200,000 mile torture test that included curb hopping.  They also offered a closed-track race between an Impala and a Ford Crown Victoria, the Ford being the main police cruiser competition at the moment.  The cops couldn't catch the Impala using the Crown Vic, even though the Crown Vic had a V8.  They must have been impressed with all this, since this vehicle is now being used by police forces across Canada as well as some taxi companies.

Anyway, enough with the history lesson.  On to the review...

<b>"I'll take the Impala."</b>
I have rented this car twice.  The first time was only for a weekend, but I did take the time to create a short review on it here.  I was very impressed with the vehicle during that short time.  So when it came time for a week-long, 1900 km/1200 mile road trip, I didn't hesitate when I was offered the key to an Impala base model.

<b>What's the diff?</b>
There are two models available: the base model and the upscale LS model.  Basically, the LS comes with standard with a centre console, floor mounted shifter, bucket seats, 3.8L V6 engine, tachometer, rear spoiler, anti-lock brakes, and traction control.  The base model has no centre console, a steering column mounted shifter, 60/40 split front bench seat, 3.4L V6 engine, no tachometer, no anti-lock brakes, and no traction control.  Some of these items are available as options on the base model.  Removing the spoiler on the LS costs $175 US if you're not a spoiler personality.  Yes, it costs money to delete the spoiler, since it's a standard option on the LS and the mounting holes must be filled in and painted over.

<b>The outside</b>
The exterior of the vehicle is certainly more radical than the Lumina and Caprice that it replaces.  The front of the vehicle is well defined by a front grille and headlight configuration that looks like the car is grinning at you.  Or maybe it's sneering.  Each headlight module has a separate round high beam and low beam portion that do an excellent job of lighting up the road before you at night.  Finally, auto manufacturers are realizing that round headlights are better than rectangular ones.  An automatic light sensor on the dashboard turns the lights on and off as required.  I didn't need to touch the headlight knob the entire trip.  The headlight bulbs are ridiculously easy to change as the entire module can detach from the vehicle for this purpose.  This is a far cry from some other sedans I've tried to change the headlight on!

<b>Eat my dust!</b>
The rear of the Impala is what usually gets noticed first.  The four round taillights, a hint of design from Impalas of old, are unmistakable when following from behind.  I know some people don't care for this styling, and when I first saw an Impala I felt the same.  But after a while it grew on me.  After all, it's only the people that are following you that have to stare at it.  My only concern about the taillights is that the entire rear is one huge plastic lens.  If it were ever damaged, I'm guessing it would likely cost a pretty penny to replace it.

<b>Heartbeat of {North} America</b>
The performance of the vehicle is excellent.  The 3.4L V6 is very snappy in any gear, and the automatic transmission is near perfect when it comes to picking the right gear.  Passing is a breeze with the 3.4 - stomp on the gas and you're gone.  And in case you're wondering about the 3.8, Chevrolet says the 3.8L V6 is electronically limited to 200 km/h (125 MPH).  The tranny never hunts for gears even driving though the steep hills of Gatineau Park in Hull, Quebec.  The temperature gauge hardly moved from the centre of the gauge during the entire trip, despite city or highway driving, the high humidity,  and outside temperatures in excess of 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit.)  Steering is very defined and never sloppy.

The base and LS models have standard 4 wheel disc brakes which are, what Chevrolet claims, the largest disc brakes on any passenger car.  The same ones the cops get, because, they get the same car you buy off the lot.  This might prove costly when it comes time for brake work, but you can't argue with the results: this car stops on a dime, even without ABS!  The turning radius is surprising for such a large car - forget 3 point turns, the cops can't afford to muck around when chasing the baddies.  Fuel economy for our trip worked out to about 28 MPG total, but keep in mind the average freeway cruising speed in Ontario is about 70-80 MPH.  This is one of the most fuel efficient cars in it's class.

<b>Interior Affairs</b>
To say that the interior of the vehicle is spacious is a grand understatement almost as big as the interior!  I am 6'6" tall so I know about the importance of space.  I have ample space with most larger sedans but the challenge is entering and exiting the vehicle as a driver with ease.  With the Impala, I have no troubles hitting my knees on the steering column or dashboard when I'm trying to get in or out.  The base model has a quasi-bench seat in the front and no centre console.  Hooray - no centre console to whack my knees on!  Plus in this configuration, you can seat six passengers when the need arises.  The split bench is not uncomfortable, even after driving for 5 hours straight.  The driver's seat has optional power controls and a manual lumbar support which keeps your back from getting sore.  The rear seat is also spacious. (probably designed for taking the bad guys to the clink).  

Even with the driver's seat all the way back, there is still room for an adult to sit in the back seat without being cramped.  Headroom in the front and especially in the rear is generous due to the way the roof is profiled, although the rear seat may be set a bit too low, especially if you have kids that like to see out the windows.  The rear windows roll *almost* all the way down.  The childproof door locks can only be set using the key which prevents curious ones from defeating the security you've put in place.

The interior is exceptionally quiet, except at high speed some road noise comes into play.  But hey, what do you expect when you're driving on the freeway?  Driving on freshly paved blacktop is smooth as silk.

<b>Power is nothing without control</b>
The dashboard is simply laid out and is another retro hint from the previous Impalas.  The instrument panel looks simple at first glance, as the base model only has speedometer, fuel, and temperature gauges.  However a tiny LCD display beneath the temperature gauge compensates for the lack of analogue gauges.  It can display everything from an open door, low tire pressure, weak battery, or when it's time to change the oil.  A bit of fake (but realistic looking) wood grain adds a tiny touch of class to the dash.  The glove compartment is extremely skimpy which is totally out of character for this car.  There are dual power outlets on the ashtray (including the cigarette lighter).

Another retro touch is the fact the ignition key switch is mounted in the dash instead of on the steering column.  Don't scoff at this, as it's way easier to work on the ignition if you need new keys or something goes wrong.  Ford can attest what a problem column mounted ignitions are, as demonstrated by a huge recall due to a fire hazard.

<b>It gets hot in Canada, too!</b>
The climate controls are simple and easy to operate.  It doesn't take long to get things to the temperature you want, but I found it difficult to find a setting that I was happy with.  After a while it was either too hot or too cold.  There was an intermittent wet and musty smell coming from the A/C when it was on, but I suspect this is a result of the hot humid Ontario summers.  An option to use outside air or recirculation is welcome when you're driving through skunk country.  I thought the way that the air vents on the dash close to blend in with the dash were a fine result of attention to detail.

<b>Let's rock and roll!</b>
The stereo.  Oh yes, the stereo.  You wouldn't think much of the stereo on this car, but you'd be sorely mistaken.  At least your ears would be sore.  Pop the trunk and look at the underside of the rear window ledge and with any luck you'll see a FACTORY INSTALLED massive amplifier and two beefy speakers.  And the louder it gets, the better it gets.  In fact with the bass turned up all the way, it is almost too much to bear!  The factory installed stereo is very easy to operate and the one in our vehicle could play tapes as well as CD's.  

The stereo also has a feature called RDS to scan the radio waves for traffic reports while listening to your CD's or tapes.  When a traffic report comes on, it automatically switches over to the radio and when the report is over, it automatically picks up your CD or tape where it left off!  Truly cool when you live in a big city with bad traffic, but you love your music more than you hate being stuck in traffic.  Not all radio stations support this feature and it only works with FM stations.  

One thing to keep in mind with the stereo is that it is used to sound the door chime and to program certain features of the car (like how the door locks work or when you've completed an oil change.)  This is important to consider since using after-market decks disable the door chimes and configuration options.  You'll have to visit a dealer or hook up the old deck to change these things.  So if you buy this vehicle, try to get one with a tape and CD player as it will increase the resale value.  

The factory stereo is obviously an attempt by Chevrolet to attract younger buyers.  I must confessed that I'm sold on that part of the Impala.  Another cool touch is that the radio continues to work even after the ignition is turned off and key removed, but when any of the doors are opened it shuts off.  Power windows, too!  Good way to stop wasting gas.

<b>And a big honkin' trunk.</b>
The trunk is absolutely massive!  It just seems to swallow up anything you can put in it.  The lid opening allows large objects to be put in with ease.  In fact, the trunk might be TOO big as it's hard to reach objects that have slid towards the front of the vehicle.  Better use the supplied cargo net unless you like fishing for groceries.  If the trunk still isn't big enough for you, there's 60/40 split folding rear seat.  The only issue with the trunk is that the lid is very high and it makes it hard to back up and judge distances.

<b>BUT....</b>
Three things that I did not like about the Impala:  

1. The windshield wipers, when at highway speed, channel the water into a continuous stream across the driver's door window.  Chevrolet used to test their windshield wipers in one of the rainiest areas of British Columbia, near where my grandparents live.  It rains there A LOT.  I think they need to go back there and do some wiper testing!  

2. The cruise control.  The cruise control held speeds very well, even up and down hills, but I think the controls are over simplified.  The cruise control on/off switch (which also has to double as a reset button) is on the turn signal stalk, and there are only two buttons on the wheel to control and set the speed.

3. The car is lacking in security.  As long as somebody has the ignition key, they can access any area of the vehicle.  The fuel filler door, fold down seats, and glovebox, are not lockable.  The power trunk release is located on the dashboard and not in the glovebox.  So if you hand your car over to a valet, the contents of the trunk are not secure.  A 2000 Pontiac Grand Prix I rented had all these features, plus a special valet key that would only work in the doors and ignition:  It would not open the trunk, glove box, or fuel filler door.

These are minor complaints however compared to the outstanding features and value of the Impala.

<b>Recommendation</b>
If you're shopping for four door sedans, I highly recommend that you give the Impala a serious look and a test drive.  The interior space is a great alternative to driving a mini-van.  There is ample room for even really tall or large individuals.  The reliability should be above average due to the police requirements built into the design from the start rather than as an afterthought.  And the performance is great and won't leave you wanting.  Both the 3.4L and 3.8L engines are very capable and I'd be happy with either.  And the price is certainly right.  My wife and I have decided that we will purchase this car in the near future.

<b>REFERENCES:</b>
http://www.fosters.com/special_sections/autos/articles2001/0501d_01.htm
http://www.gmcanada.com

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<