DOC>
<DOCID> 28054 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Chevrolet_Impala </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_115913756292 </URL>
<TEXT>
            
Intro

Oh man, it has been a long, long time since i have written a review on Epinions, and boy does it feel good to be back! Lots been going on these last 7 months or so and lot of new products to be written about, but to start off with, a review about the newest member of our family.. our Chevrolet Impala!

Our Breeze Moves On To Pastures New

My wife and I owned a Plymouth Breeze for roughly a year and we really enjoyed the car, (see my review) but we decided that we wanted a bigger car; the Chevy Impala fitted the bill Perfectly. As soon as we saw the car at the dealer i fell in love.  I am usually not to keen on Chevy's, not for any particular reason, i have just always preferred other manufacturers to them, and now I realize what i have been missing out on.  

The Exterior: Certainly Eye Catching

The Impala's retro styling is very striking, and it catches your attention immediately! From the sleek curves to the wonderful tail lights. The exterior design is well suited to people who like both ultra modern and retro designs. All Chevy Impala's come fitted with a rear spoiler as standard, which i personally like. It gives the car a sleek sporty look, though some people do not like spoilers. You can buy models without the spoiler. If you buy a new Impala and you do not want the spoiler it will cost you (yes that&#146s right) it will cost you roughly $300 more, this is because the Impala's are pre drilled at the factory, and if you do not want the spoiler they have to fill in the holes! Anyway.  

I have the LS model and it comes with 16" alloy wheels as standard and it also come with side spoilers (or side skirts as we call them in England) that run the length of the car, thus once again adding a sportier look to the car.

The Interior: Very Easy On The Eye

Okay I was saying earlier on about me not liking Chevy's, well one of the reasons is the Interiors of their vehicles.  To me most of the interiors look very cheap; they are very square and are just not easy on the eye. The Impala differs here quite drastically.  

I feel the Interior of the car is just as if not more important than the exterior.  I mean lets face it, i would love to spend all my time looking at the wonderful tail lights of this car but most of my time is going to be spent in it, and it has got to look good! The dashboard looks superb. It follows in the footsteps of the exterior with its sleek smooth curves, the leather steering wheel not only extremely comfortable it is also adjustable to just about any position imaginable so you can get that 'ultimate driving' position. The dash is neatly laid out and all of the dials are big and are easy to read. I love the message center. This is a wonderful tool. it tells you when something is wrong, I.E Door Open or when your trunk is open, when it is time for an oil change or if your tire pressures are low! Very Very Handy.

The Seats are just oh so comfortable. The driver&#146s seat is electronic which makes it very easy to get into position. The seats provide ample lumbar support too, you can quite easily sit in these for several hours and still be and very comfortable. The panel controls are very nicely positioned and the dual A/C controls are just a dream, the passengers in the front of the car at least can set the A/c For their side of the car as they want! No more too hot&#146s or too colds you can get it just right.  

The back Seat is huge! This car can easily hold five adults if you have a bench seat instead of bucket seats you can fit 6 adults, which if you have a large family could come in very handy indeed.  

The Truck is overly large and you can fit a whole bunch of stuff back there, just be sure you do not hit the On star Navigation Box with anything. Oh onto on star! I love this feature! On the rearview mirror there are several buttons. If you press them you will be connected to an on star operator and they can provide you with any kind of assistance. Lost? Need directions? no problem just press the button. Broken down? no problem just hit the button. Also one very smart feature, if you are in a wreck and the air bag deploys, it will automatically call on star and they will be able to tell exactly where you are through GPS so emergency services can be sent your way.  Only bad deal is the cheapest On star package is $34.99 a month! But well worth it if you drive a lot of miles.  The Stereo is also wonderful, powered by a factory installed amplifier and 4 huge speakers! Crank up the volume and you get clean, crisp distortion free sound and quite a bit of bass i might add! very cool! Just one niggle about the interior design! Who decided to put the cup holders where they are? They are in a real awkward place. Right beside the seat, which does not sound bad but believe me, when you are driving and your arm keeps hitting the cup, it is very annoying! Also when you want to get a drink you have to bend your arm into the most awkward position.

The Performance: Super Duper Quick

I have the 3.8 V6, which put out just a little over 200bhp and oh boy does it pack some punch! This car just yells at you to go faster! For such a large car it gets up and goes with no hesitation at all! Chevy Claims 0 to 60 in 7.8 seconds, which i can really honestly believe. Interstate driving is a pure pleasure.  The ride is like riding on air and there is very little interior noise, you can hardly tell you are doing 70mph on the bumpy Oklahoma interstates! The car however does tend to roll just a tiny bit when you go into corners, apart from that the drive is quite superb.  The MPG's are also very impressive! About 30 mpg is what you can expect on the interstates and roughly 24 around town, which for an engine this large is very good. As with all Chevy's there are daytime running lights! As soon as you take off the parking brake the light will be on, and they will adjust their brightness depending on the conditions you are driving in, which comes in handy when you are driving.  The care comes with all round disc brakes, which enables you to stop this car on a dime! I think i might be right when i say this is the only car in this class with all round disc brakes?? Only bad deal is when it comes to replace the brakes it will hit your wallet quite a bit harder! That is really not a factor though when you consider your braking system is much safer than most.

Final Words:

Overall this car is superb.  Styling from old and new to suit all. Super comfortable interior, safety features galore, cheap to run and wonderful to drive. I love my Impala and you too will love yours if you buy one

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<