DOC>
<DOCID> 28536 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Saab_9_5 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-C8D-DE47CBD-3936C3CF-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Some background, I'm a mid-twenties single male that last owned a SAAB 900S and E36 (previous body style) BMW 328i.  I've always been fond of SAAB's but definitely considered myself a BMW-man because of their great sporting nature.  It almost seems blasphemous that I purchased a new SAAB when I could have a great E46 (new generation) 328i (and the 328i is a GREAT CAR).  So, how did I find myself in a new 9-5???

I've driven the new 3 series on a number of occasions.  While a fine car, GREAT actually, it is definitely more towards the luxury middle ground than the previous 3 series was (just as the E30 M3 was more raw than the E36 M3).  This is generally good for BMW sales however it's led me to seriously consider other cars.

When looking at prices for various cars in the $30k - $40k range that offered manual transmissions, luxury features, sporting rides and excellent looks that will age gracefully, I came to consider the BMW 328i, Volvo S70 T5 and SAAB 9-5 Aero.  Sadly, MB is overpriced and doesn't offer a 5-speed.  I hate the T6 styling and the A4 is a little dated itself these days (but is about to be replaced) .  The Lexus GS300 doesn't offer a manual transmission nor did the Infiniti I30, Cadillac Catera or Acura TL.  The Lincoln LS, while offering a 5-speed, just wasn't quite sporting enough compared to the competition.  The V8, sadly, is only offered with an Auto.

The Volvo S70 T5 wasn't available ANYWHERE so I didn't even get a chance to drive it!  That left me with only two options:  The 328i and the 9-5 Aero.

Let's talk about <b>performance</b>:

Objectively (borrowing from www.edmunds.com), the Aero beats the 328i in roadhandling, 0-60 and 60-0 figures, though just barely in the 0-60.  Subjectively, the BMW feels more precise.  The steering and road feel in the Aero, while very good, is not quite up to the legendary BMW feel.  It is close though.  My initial impression of the Aero was that it couldn't really compare to the 328i, but I have been continually surprised by the speeds I see when I look down at the speedometer.  Similarly, the body roll of this car made it seem like it just didn't handle as well but when pushed to the limit, it takes a lot.  Consider that the roadhandling index from www.edmunds.com is significantly higher for the Aero than the 328i.  Once you are accustomed to the body roll, you will be very comfortable moving through S-curves at ridiculous speeds.  The Aero's manual transmission has a nice, precise feel (more so than other SAAB's) but is not quite as good as the 3-Series.  I would still give a 328i with sport package the handling/driving award, but the Aero is soooooooooo close that once you get over the initial impression that the suspension is softer and the acceleration just isn't as strong, you will find the drive VERY rewarding.  One last thing about the suspension and acceleration, I'm comparing this to the pinnacle of sport-sedan driving experiences (the BMW 3 series).  Were you to compare it to the other models that I excluded, you would find that the Aero actually exceeds all of them without being unduly harsh.

How about <b>Comfort and Features</b>???

What can I say but that the Aero wins this hands down.  It's a substantially larger car with excellent seats.  In fact, comparing this to the 3-Series is really unjust.  The upgraded Aero stereo is good.  It is loud but seems a little boomy (I NEVER increase the bass more than 20% above normal).  The stereo also seems to lack some imaging quality that I haven't been able to pinpoint.  However, in its class, it is above par.  There are more little things to this car than I can fully describe here but I'll list a few:  Heated (Front and Rear) &amp; Cooled (Front) seats, Refrigerated glovebox (good to 45F), dual sun visors, SAAB Night Panel (cool, you'll like it), tilt down passenger mirror for parking, Automatic dimming rear view mirror, headlamp washers (important to snowy environs like MN), Rear Fog light (makes me wish the Twin Cities got more fog just so I could use it), Automatic dual-zone climate control (even switches to Recirc automatically in traffic), full function trip computer, convex passenger side mirror that eliminates the blind spot and a whole lot more.

About that cupholder - Some hate it, some love it.  I love it!

You wanna know about <b>Styling</b>?

This, of course, is a very subjective matter.  Don't just look at pictures on the web.  Go to the dealer and compare them or at least get a brochure.  I believe that the 9-5 Aero looks better than the 3-Series.  Actually, it looks better than most of it's competitors.  It is understated (even with the Aero trim), borrowing traditional SAAB cues, particularly in the grill.  The rear end is high (typical SAAB) and includes a large trunk.  The car looks both stately and sporty at the same time.  It does not, however, break any new styling ground.  In my opinion, this is a good thing.  I always was a little self-conscious in my last BMW because it just drew so many stares (partly the design, partly the roundel badge) and while the SAAB is a beautiful car, it does not impart that sense of conspicuous consumption.  My one complaint is that SAAB just doesn't offer enough exterior color selections.  The charcoal interior is beautiful.  I love it.

How <b>Safe</b> is this thing when I run into a moose?

Have you heard about the Moose test?  SAAB simulates running their cars into a moose (something that occurs in Scandinavia) to make certain that the A-pillars do not collapse in such an accident.  I cannot tell you how comfortable that makes me feel heading out into the country on 2 lane roads.  If this thing can handle a moose, a deer should not be a real problem.  I have a video of their moose testing on the 9000 and 900 and it's impressive.

I've also seen 2 900's after real crashes.  SAAB's &quot;real-world safety&quot; philosophy is the real thing.  One 900 was broadsided on the drivers side (a very dangerous accident) at ~40 mph.  There was very little intrusion into the passenger compartment.  I'm told the driver purchased a new SAAB just 3 days later.  Another was a somewhat offset head-on collision.  Again, the deformation of the car was text-book perfect.

Of course, you also get all the standard safety goodies such as  side/head seat-mounted airbags, dual front airbags, excellent structure, active head restraint to prevent whiplash, seat belt pretensioners and anti-submarining seats.  Also, if you opt for the on-star system, your call will automatically summon emergency services in the event of a severe accident that results in air bag deployment.  Again, driving alone in the country, this could well be very helpful if it doesn't save your life!

I feel VERY safe driving this car.  It almost has the solid feeling that has given Volvo the nickname of 'Brick'.  Recently it has won a number of awards for safety, though I'm at a loss to cite them off the top of my head.

<b>Conclusion</b>:

SAAB has produced a car that is an excellent value, across the entire model range.  The Aero competes with the best and beats them all on price without any really obvious cost-cutting.  It matches the performance cars while meeting all the luxury cars.  This car has it all, performance, comfort, quality, looks, safety and a good price.  

PS:  About the key in the center console.  Most people I know (including myself) found it odd at first.  I know noone that didn't eventually come to love it!  To paraphrase another review I read here, putting it anywhere else just doesn't feel right!!!<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<