DOC>
<DOCID> 29134 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Volvo_V70 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-3861-262C778F-3A1F1E94-prod5 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Let me say it from the outset: I love Volvo station wagons.  This is my third Volvo wagon, but my first new car ever, of any sort.

My husband Bob and I bought our 2000 V70 in August 2000.  We didn't intend to buy a car just then. We'd attended a Volvo station wagon test drive event in mid-July, and became acquainted with the new Volvos and what they have to offer.  We loved the test drive but thought we were years away from buying another car.  So we ate Swedish meatballs, enjoyed the various performances, and used our free tickets to the Liberty Science Center from Volvo (the science center parking lot was the location of the event).

Less than a month later, our mechanic declared our 1984 BMW not worth repairing.  Our other car, which was our &quot;newer&quot; car, is a 1987 Volvo 240 wagon that we bought used in 1995.  We narrowed our choices to three: 1) buy Bob's father's 1990 Honda Civic, 2)search out another used Volvo wagon, 3)buy a new minivan, preferably a Toyota Sienna or Honda Odyssey.  Dutifully, we did some online research, searched the classified ads and poked around on local dealers' lots.  Resigned that our best option was another used wagon, we headed to Red Bank Volvo.

At Red Bank Volvo we found several perfectly nice used wagons.  We also looked enviously at the 2001 wagons that had just arrived.  What we didn't count on was our discovery of five 2000 V70s for sale.  The cars had been used as service loaners.  In an effort to snag the attention of people who already owned Volvos and would possibly be in the market for another in the future, these wagons were loaded with nice options.  All had sunroofs, leather interiors and winter packages.  Each had 3000-5000 miles on the odometer and came with a new car warranty.

This added a wrinkle to our decision making.  Here was a car that was all we ever dared dream of in a station wagon, and at $29,000, it was several thousand dollars less than a 2001 would be.  On the other hand, if we were willing to spend that much, why not just go for the gusto and get a 2001. In fact, we thought, why not really go for it and take European delivery. Then we'd get the car and a nice trip for about the price of a 2001.

We came back to our senses and decided that the best deal for us was one of the 2000 V70 loaners.  There were two green ones, two blue ones and a black one available on our first visit.  By the time we went back a day or two later to choose a car, both green and the black one were still available, but one of the blue ones had been sold.  We took another good look at the remaining four and chose the blue one.

The car has been nothing short of thrilling for me. It is so, of course, in the quiet, elegant way a Volvo would be thrilling.  The car handles easily, smoothly and well.  Pick up is good, and the car's interior is virtually soundproofed from outside noise and engine sounds.  This is our first car with a CD player and we are enjoying it a lot. The audio quality is excellent.  Our car has an automatic sunroof that we use almost daily, either fully open, or as a moonroof.  The car is equipped with an optional winter package, but luckily it hasn't been cold enough in NJ yet for us to have used it.

The car's steering is responsive but firm.  I like the way the brakes handle; it makes me feel as in control of a car as I ever have been.  The dashboard controls and indicators are clearly marked and easy to use.  Our car has an optional feature knob called &quot;info&quot; near the trip odometer.  The knob can be adjusted to display various pieces of information, such as outdoor temperature, actual miles per gallon, average miles per gallon for the trip, or the number of miles until refueling is necessary.  

Seating in the car is considerably more roomy than our 240 wagon.  There is more driver leg room, and the car has an overall feeling of being wider than the 240.  The back seat comfortably seats two adults and a child.  It might even be OK for three adults to sit across for a trip that isn't too long.  The back seat also features a built-in booster seat that our seven year old and her friends fight to sit in, which is not usually the case with a booster seat and children their age.  The driver's seat features three memory settings so that all I have to do is push the number 1 setting on the seat base and the seat bottom and back will automatically move to the position I have chosen.

We have had the optional third seat installed, at an additional cost of about $1,200.  This seat can hold two children weighing up to 80 pounds each.  The addition of this seat means that we can have up to seven people in the car: 2 adults in the front, three children in the back and two children in the third seat.  Knowing that we could add this seating capacity eased our anxiety about foregoing the carrying capacity of a minivan.  <br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<