DOC>
<DOCID> 29233 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Mazda_Protege5 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_115974377092 </URL>
<TEXT>
            In years past, people who need the practicality of a minivan and the driving dynamics of a car have to consider the very few choices of station wagons out there. Not only that they aren't built for sporting intentions, most people would not prefer to be seen in one. Much has changed since then, and more manufacturers began to offer such models as Subaru Impreza WRX wagon and Toyota Matrix. In 2002, Mazda began to offer their own version - the Protege5. It isn't as powerful as other competitors but that doesn't mean it is any less fun. My vehicle is a 2003 version.

Engine and transmission

The Protege5 is equipped with a 2.0L DOHC 16 valve 4 cylinder engine. Output is 130hp and 135lbs of torque. This powerplant is certainly adequate for a vehicle barely over 2700lbs and when equipped with manual transmission, the performance is somewhat peppy. (I cannot speak for the auto transmission because I have not driven one). Torque is on the low side so you'd need to revved the vehicle hard if you intend to outrun the next vehicle. But it does run on regular gasoline and fuel economy is decent so I guess that's the trade-off. The gear shifter has nice feel to it but the throws are a bit on the long side and the transition from 1st and 2nd gear is rather sticky, especially at high rpm. Other owners have reported that upgrading to aftermarket bushing (e.g. Kartboy) and shifter does improve the feel and reduce the length of throw. The other complaint I have with respect to the engine is the rather short gearing. This is done probably to increase the responsiveness of the car in town. But when driven on the highway, the engine revs to 3000rpm when doing barely over 100km and about 3500rpm over 120km. While the feel is by no means uncomfortable and the noise isolation is good, I do not like to have the engine revvs so high for an extended period of time which ultimately causes excessive wear on the engine and limit the durability of the vehicle. What it needs is a 6th gear!

Handling

This is definitely the best part of the vehicle. The car goes to where the steering wheel points to with confidence. The steering offers excellent feedback. The stock Dunlops offer decent grip on dry pavement but other people have indicated they are useless in the snow. I have since changed to a set of Nokian WR all weather tires which I will review in the future. Just a note, the size of the stock tires is a non-std 195/50/16. So choices for a set of summer tires and snow tires are limited. My current set is 205/50/16 and it appears to be free of rubbing.

Utility

Protege 5 is equipped with 60/40 folding back seat, allowing longer and taller items to be placed in such a compact vehicle. And luckily that is the case because, otherwise, the trunk is quite small. It only has 20 cubic feet of space. With the seats folded, the room almost double to 38 cubic feet. Moreover, the wheel well intrusion into the vehicle also limit the useful cargo room. I can barely fit my golf clubs into the trunk since it's a bit on the narrow side. I had no such problem with my '91 Civic hatch. 2 sets of clubs would be maximum. Cargo cover is standard and can be removed for cargo flexibility. Unfortunately, it is the non-retractable type so it does take up room if it is to be stored in the vehicle. The rear seats do fold up behind the front seats, creating a flat cargo floor but the rear head cushions need to be removed first - again requiring extra room in the vehicle to stow them away. This is the obviously a case of style over function.

Utility around the cabin is otherwise quite decent. There are pockets on all the doors for misc. items. The glove box is quite voluminous considering the passenger side is equipped with an airbag. The storage box around hand brake position however is a bit on the small side. Front cupholders are standard and from what I've heard they are quite an improvement over 2002 editions - and they are indeed decent. I'd however avoid oversize cups in manual equipped cars unless you are going at highway speed for extended period of time - shifting into 1st, 3rd, and 5th may be a bit awkward.

Interior

My vehicle is a special version (since this is last year of production) and includes leather seats from factory as well as polished alloy wheels. The seats are nicely shaped and supported. I have driven the vehicle 11 hours straight and I am barely tired from sitting. The centre console is very nicely designed and logical and switch placement. The leather steering is thick and feels very nice to my hands. I only opted for the std. single CD unit and it provides decent sound output (I am no audiophile though!). Moonroof is available and offers tilt and open options. 

Outside

Probably one of the best, if not the best, looking hatchback/wagon around. The body kit around the car is subtle but enhances the overall design of the car. The new Mazda 3 looks a bit more aggressive but the lines are certainly not as flowing as the Protege 5. 2003 also comes with new color - laser blue - which compliments the chrome wheels very well. 

Misc

The headlights are standard halogen and the output is awesome for a halogen. In fact, Consumer report has rated it one of the best halogen headlights around. Fog lights is standard and gives bright output right in front of the vehicle. I would recommend anyone getting this vehicle also purchase the optional cargo tray (which keeps the trunk very clean) and cargo net (a grocery saver, keeping them from rolling around in the trunk).


Petpeeves

Everyone seems to have a couple of things they wish to change and I'm of no exception. Firstly, there is a gap between the seatbacks and the seatbottom. So if you have so papers lying on the passenger seat, it would most likely end of the floor at the back. Secondly, the vehicle is equipped with power door lock but only on the driver's side. And the locks is located towards the back of the door of the front compartment - unlike my '91 Civic which has locks near the door handles. 

Cost

Compare to the competition (Subaru Impreza wagon and Toyota Matrix), it comes well equipped while costing thousands less. It's true that it is not as powerful and 4WD is not option, but it is good value for what it has. With the Mazda 3 coming in 2004, dealers are likely to give decent discounts and incentive so buy it while you can. It is worth noting that the Mazda 3 will have an upgraded engine with 160hp and 160lbs torque so for those who "needs" more power, it may be worth the wait. 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<