DOC>
<DOCID> 29668 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Buick_Regal </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_7997853316 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I purchased a Buick Regal in October 1999. So far I've driven it in all conditions. The thing that impressed me the most was acceleration. 0-60 is 6.6 seconds with the traction control off, which easily beats an Acura TL, Nissan Maxima, Chrysler 300M, Lincoln LS, and Cadillac Seville STS, all of which I've beaten in 0-60 merge lane racing. During snow and ice conditions, the traction and ABS does a good job to keep the car steady. I took the car to an empty parking lot on a snow filled day and slammed the brakes at 40 MPH. ABS and traction allowed me to steer fairly confidently while stopping.

The car is a joy to drive. The suspension is a little rough when going over speed bumps and badly maintained roads. (I assume it's stiffer because I bought the Grand Turing version which has a sport tuned suspension) But driving at highway speeds is a joy and the car feels confident and steady. The only irritation is hearing the air flow by the rear view mirrors on windy days at high speeds.

The trunk space is very large, which I use to transport computer equipment to customer's locations. The rear seats fold to extend the trunk. To get an idea how wide it is, take an average size snow shovel, it will fit vertically and horizontally in the trunk and still be able to close.

The leather is durable and comfortable. The sun roof is an option I would DEFINITELY recommend. It feels great driving in summer with all the windows down and the sun shining down on you from above. The sun roof mechanism will get stuck in extremely cold wintery conditions. Open it completely once or twice a week if you park the car outside.

The controls look old, but are functional. I had no problem learning what all the buttons did. None of the controls thus far have felt "worn", so construction is top notch. I ordered the steering wheel stereo controls which allow you to forward and reverse tracks, alternate between radio and CD, and change the volume. The steering controls are also illuminated.

The left and center rear view mirrors on the GS model dim automatically when lights from vehicles shine in them, making driving easier. The headlights have a twilight sensor that turn on automatically. (This can be overridden) This car has many gadgets and "neat" features but not as many as a car like the Pontiac Bonneville or Volkswagen Passat. If you crave gadgets, you'll get bored quick.

The supercharger works much like a turbo, it only initializes when you need the power. If you drive normally in city environments it will not start, saving gas mileage. If you drive on the highway often, it will more than likely be used to some extent. The PSI Boost display on the HUD shows the level of compression the supercharger can attain. On a very dry cool day when the air is thin, the supercharger can reach 11 PSI if you floor it, getting from 0-60 in about 6 1/2 seconds. There is so much torque that if you slam the accelerator from a standing start (traction off), the car will actually spin the tires in place for several seconds before taking off. Traction control can be turned off by pressing a button located near the gear shift.

The 200 Watt Monsoon Stereo is good and loud. It is not very customizeable, only allowing you to change bass and treble, and speaker balancing. So no equalizer for all you audio buffs. At 2/3 volume there is a noticeable hissing from the stereo, and certain music heavy bass music will crackle even at approximately 3/5 of maximum volume.

There are four cup holders, (front and rear) plenty of glove box space, and adequate seating for 4 people. Fitting three average size adults in the back is difficult. There is a fair amount of knee room in the back, however.

You will receive compliments for the car. Some people have come up to me and asked what type of car it is, and how much it cost. The allow wheels are very stylish and create a cool looking affect at high speed.

After 20,000 miles, I still love this car. A friend of mine owns the same make/model and has driven it for about 40,000 miles with no complaints. I would recommend this vehicle to anyone with a family, anyone who drives long distances and wants to be comfortable, and anyone who wants to peel out every once in awhile. People do notice it when you're driving on the road. If you get it in black, it looks menacing, and in the rear left above the tail lamps "Supercharged" is noticeable to those whom you've just passed. With a large 3.8 liter Supercharged V6 engine, it should last a long time without much engine related maintenance. The owner's manual recommends only using premium gas, because of the supercharger, but I'm not sure it this concern is only from a performance standpoint or if it could reduce the life of the engine. In my "Epinion", This car is a good value at $27,000.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<