DOC>
<DOCID> 29714 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1986_Buick_Electra </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_89876041348 </URL>
<TEXT>
            One day last December, my father's older brother called up and said he was getting rid of his Buick Electra sedan... he didn't really feel like going through all the trouble of selling it, so he offered to just give it to us... my father gladly said yes.

I've lost track of how many free cars we've gotten over the years!

Actually, the car ended up getting sold by us for $500 worth of Christmas money, and thus has been gone for quite a while.  I did take the car out for a solid test drive while I was back home for Xmas vacation... and I've finally gotten around to writing about it!

First off, note the car was a '85 model, not a '86.  I put it here as there is no Electra listed in the 1985 Buick area for some reason.  There weren't any major changes between these years (other than the fact the 3.8L V6 was optional instead of standard in '85), so this is just for your information.

There was also a upscale trim level called the Park Avenue, which our Electra was not equipped with. 

A bit of history to start out..

GM had nearly completed converting their lineup to front drive by the mid 80s.  All that was left were the full size models.  The decision to convert to front wheel drive was based on several factors, but the main one was the fact that front wheel drive would allow car designers to maintain the large interior room of these vehicles while cutting a large amount of excess weight out.  The new vehicles would also use more efficient, smaller displacement engines and have aerodynamic styling to improve gas mileage, along with their much lower curb weights.  Furthermore, in the hands of an average driver, a FWD vehicle is much easier to control in rain and snow, adding a measure of safety that seemed a very attractive marketing prospect.

This was the final phase of the downsizing of the American car that had started in earnest in the mid 70s in response to the gas crisis and fuel economy standards.  Many mid 80s vehicles were the lightest cars ever to roam American roads, relative to their ancestors of the same size categories.

Cars have since gone back to being heavy... but that's another story for another time.

The car is 197.0 inches long, with a 110.8 inch wheelbase, putting it firmly in the full-size class.

The Electra weighs in at 3189 pounds.  This is an absolutely incredible number for a full-size car, and is about 900 pounds (!) less than the car it replaced in the lineup.  The interior was just as large as the older, heavier car, however.  By the way, nearly every current car of this size class weighs close to or over 4000 pounds.

Motivation is supplied by the venerable transverse-mounted, cast-iron 3.8L/231ci OHV V6, a Buick division design.  This powerplant, in a more advanced form, still sees service today in cars such as the Chevy Impala, Pontiac Grand Prix, and Buick Regal.  It has powered literally tens of millions of vehicles, and is a very reliable, low-stress powerplant, designed to serve a long life with minimal fuss.

A 3.0L/183ci OHV V6 was the base engine this year.  This engine would be rather streched to move the car, and is probably best avoided.  Very few were installed.  The 3.8L V6 became standard from '86 onward to reflect the reality that no one was choosing to keep the base engine anyway.

Vital signs for the '85 version come in at 125 bhp @ 4400 RPM and 195 lb-ft. @ 2000 RPM.  Multipoint fuel injection is found on this engine, and this was a cutting edge system at the time of its introduction.  The EPA tags the car at 21 MPG city and 29 MPG highway, which is a solid performance for a large car.  An 18 gallon fuel tank provides very good, if not incredible, cruising range.  A 4 speed overdrive automatic (Ratios as follows: 1st-2.92:1___2nd-1.57:1___3rd-1.00:1___4th-0.70:1___Rev-2.83:1) sends the power to the 2.84 final drive, from which it travels to the wheels.  Total torque multiplication is thus rather low, but this pays off in relaxed highway cruising and better fuel economy, which are the stated goals.

The engine comes off the line strong, with its abundant low-RPM torque, but becomes breathless at high RPM as it leaves its sweet spot.  Like all engines of this sort, the impression of acceleration is greater than the actual amount of acceleration that takes place.  I clocked the car at 9.6 seconds 0-60, decent performance for the period.  The engine itself is fairly quiet overall unless pushed, when it sounds rather wheezy.  Another common American V6 characteristic.  The transmission shifts decently, though far from imperceptibly.  It becomes flustered easily just as the engine does.  Call for full power, and it studders and hestitates, finally downshifting with a jar.  Upshifts under full power are similarly executed.

This car cries for mercy when put under the whip.  "Don't hurry me", it says.  Stereotypical granny car...  ^_^

I should point out here that is car had several holes in the exhaust system, and was thus QUITE loud at all times.  The similarity in the exhaust note between this car and my mother's '93 Z28 Camaro was quite amusing.  Had we kept the car, I would have lobbied to leave the exhaust unrepaired.  The sight of this granny car with its grumbling, growling exhaust did turn a few heads.  Actually, it was loud enough that I'm sure it would have become tiresome quickly.

The car's overall exterior condition was terrible.  The car was a gray metallic color, but the clear coat had totally disappered from the hood, roof, and trunk.  I am not sure what caused this, but all horizontal surfaces on the car had become stripped of clear coat.  Otherwise, the body had never been in an accident, and was in decent shape.  Some of the emblems were damaged, but all were present.  The power antenna did not work.

The styling is very nondescript, defined by aerodynamics and Buick's conservative orientation.  The only attention grabbing part of the design is the fact that the hood is hinged at the front, like my BMW.  Unlike my BMW, a rather complex system is employed which allows the hood to be hoisted up and then all the way over the nose of the vehicle, totally covering the front end.  This allows excellent access to the engine bay and makes hitting your head on the hood (a problem with all such designs) a near impossibility, but the hood itself is very heavy and the procedure requires you to start at the front of the vehicle to lift the hood, then move to the side to tip it over.  The hood was changed to a conventional rear-hinged design in the smoothed out 1987 restyling.

The cream-colored interior was in good shape overall.  The passenger side of the dashboard buzzed, the radio often refused to work and its pixels displayed gibberish, and the weatherstripping around the driver's side window was in tatters, but the condition of the seats was solid.  Bench seats front and back (split bench in front) provide abundant space for all, with seating for 6 a feasible option.  The cushions are quite shapeless but very soft, great for relaxed cruising.  This car is at its best when loaded with people.  Great for a family trip or dragging around a load of friends.  The trunk is very large, but not absolutely huge.

Nothing about the interior looks truly expensive or special, and material quality is only average.  But there are some gizmos to play with.  The power seats in front both function nicely, and would be needed to accomidate smaller drivers, since the pedals are fairly distant.  They fit my lanky frame well, however.  Red lights illuminate the lower part of the doors when they are opened to help prevent dings in a dark parking lot.  The cruise control worked.  My only serious gripe would be the dash.  Just two gauges... speed (displayed in a huge horizontal graph, granny style) and fuel.  An "information center" held all the idiot lights.  I dislike these as they don't warn you until something goes wrong, when it's usually too late to do much about it.

But that's the American way : "Don't fix it if it ain't broke."  The idea is to relax in this car, not worry about its inner workings.  The fuel gauge was truly ridiculous, though.  It would swing wildly between half full and empty with changes in the car's pitch as I traveled up and down hills.  I was never quite sure if I had enough fuel to get back home or not...

Overall reliability would probably be average.  The engine and powertrain are very reliable, but the electronics are somewhat finicky.

Handling performance is slightly better than I expected.  205/75R14 tires adorn all four corners, and they do their duty silently.  The tires refused to cry out under even the sharpest turns, which suprised me, and the engine didn't have enough torque to chirp them upon takeoff.  The super-boosted steering is very artifical and numb, but makes one finger steering a snap, a must for any good granny car.  Resistance in the wheel is so nonexistant even when the vehicle is stopped that I found myself often unable to discern if the wheels were pointed straight or not when parking next to a curb, leading to some unwanted curb checking.

Noise levels were decent overall, excepting the aforementioned exhaust.  Wind roar was quite a bit louder than my BMW at highway speed, due to the larger frontal area and inferior sound proofing.  It beat my SkyHawk on this measure by a slight margin, however.  Once again, acceptable enough.

The ride isn't nearly as cushy as I was predicting.  Bumps and ruts came through clearly, although muffled well.  Overall ride quality was only moderately good... I was expecting more of a magic carpet ride.  My own '87 Buick SkyHawk actually has a better ride, despite being a small car with a shorter wheelbase.  The body leaned way over in hard turns and the car understeered heavily, but the suspension remained fairly composed... helped no doubt by the slow steering, meaning a gradual turn is the ONLY turn you can truly make.  Trust me, you'll have no great desire to attempt to hustle this car through the corners.  But if you do, at least the tires won't scream like scalded dogs.  Remember, grandmas aren't in a hurry to get to church or the grocery store.

Once again... "Don't rush me.", it says.

In summation, this car is certainly unexciting, but very sensible if you need the acres of space it has to offer.  A very practical car, whose legacy continues to this day in the form of the Buick LeSabre.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<