DOC>
<DOCID> 30390 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Pontiac_Aztek </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_28944469636 </URL>
<TEXT>
               Everybody talks about how ugly the Aztek is. How wierd and laughable it is. I bet none of the naysayers have driven one, ridden one or even sat in one, well I have the truth right here. 
   The very first time I saw an Aztek on the television, I was intrigued. Its interesting looks and the commercial made it seem like a multifaceted performer. The first time  I sat in one, I had trouble believing the head room and hip space it had, leg-room was fine too. I am six foot nine, and have never fit in a regular sized vehicle like I have in the Aztek. The seats are so comfortable that I find myself making them uncomfortable to not fall asleep on long drives.
   I've had no problems with the construction of the vehicle or it's performance. The heads up display is perfect for busy freeway driving. It shows MPH, turn signals, stereo information, and trouble gauges if they pop up. With stereo controls on the steering wheel, I never have to look away from the road to make adjustments. The transmission shifts smoothly and power is always available. Maybe not Ferrari power, but I can cruise down the highway going in the eighties with no apparent engine stress, I haven't bothered taking my Aztek any faster, tickets are expensive :).
   The stereo is outstanding as well, ten speakers and six cds. After three weeks of driving, I've yet to hear the cd skip. The equalizer is adjustable to any taste and the sound is clear even with the volume maxed out.
   The Aztek turns like a car as opposed to some of the other SUVs I've driven, nice and sharp. Weaving in and out of traffic is easy as well. The snub nose design makes it easy to move in and out of tight spots without worrying about scraping into anything, which had been a problem with me. Being able to sit up straight for a change has helped with that, but the short nose is great. The model I bought also had the cargo tray in the rear. No more groceries rolling around the back of the truck for me. My lady can pull the tray out to load it, slide the tray closed, then pull it out and unload instead of crawling in and out of the truck to grab bags.
   Driving with all the windows down and the sunroof open on the freeway gets noisy, but I only did it to see what it would be like, and I do it anyway haha. Maybe it sounds a bit too good, but all I can say to someone talking garbage is, "Be quiet and drive one. 
   "Everyone that has approached me when I'm with the car has loved it. I paid 25.9K. I could've paid less if I wasn't in an employment pinch. You can insist on invoice price and get it without much fighting, Pontiac has a thousand dollars off on top of that, and can take upto a thousand more off during sales or holidays for a grand total of 23,725. Which is a great deal with your own financing, the thing I didn't have. That's for one with leather, heads up, six cd stereo, sunroof, cargo tray, what else could you ask for?
   * I've had my Aztek for six months now. I'v driven it in the rain and had no problems with the lack of a rear wiper. Fuel economy is around the 23s with mostly city driving. The construction quality has remained tight. Apparently someone tried to jimmy my door, but thy weren't able to, all they did was mess up some wiring which was a cheap fix, so on top of everything else that I've liked about this car, it's pretty secure as well. The only legitimate problem I've faced is that my AC went out, but that was a simple fix and free with the warranty. I still haven't heard a CD skip, the seats are still comfortable, the ride is still quiet and I'm still happy. I also just found out that there won't be green Azteks for 2002 so I like mine even more. *
  I recently saw two new 2001 Azteks on a dealer's lot that were marked down $8000 dollars, so if you want one, it seems to me that you can make yourself a good deal as long as you go in to a dealer with the price you want and a little bit of backbone.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<