DOC>
<DOCID> 30612 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Oldsmobile_Aurora </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_57017798276 </URL>
<TEXT>
            !!!Update!!! If you are remotely interested in this car now is the time to buy!  0% for 5 years is back or a $3000 rebate is available till Sept. 02!!


The Oldsmobile Aurora is probably one of the best offerings from GM right now.  With distinctive styling, exotic build materials, wonderful ergonomics, incredible comfort, options to the hilt, and a great overall ride, it's just an exciting package.  Last October my girlfriend had decided that her long drive to work was wearing out her 94' Trans Am.  It was an easy decision to make, 0% interest deals were being offered, and she was worried that the Trans Am was eventually going to have mechanical issues.  When she told me that it might be a great time to buy and that she was looking I told her I would help her in anyway I could.  

I told her to start on the internet, get an idea of what she likes, find out what she wants in a car, get some pricing info, find out how much she should spend.  After a few days she'd pretty much decided she wanted a mid-size to large sedan, that was quiet, had some nice luxury features, was priced below $30,000 US, she wanted attractive styling, and a good warranty.  At 1st I thought it would be hard to find a vehicle that fit this bill and at the same time to find one made by GM.  We wanted to look at GM because they were offering the best "0%" deal, 0% for 60 months.  Ford offered the same thing a little later, but on limited models.  We had recently rented a Saturn LS200 which we both liked overall, so this is where I told her to start her research.  A loaded LS300 was what she began researching, we went and looked at one, she wasn't too impressed, nor was I, but it was the best I could think of as yet.  So on to research other GM's.

Believe it or not, we had rented an Oldsmobile Alero previous to the Saturn.  She really liked the Alero's styling, yet the interior was quite cramped, and the wind noise was fairly pronounced on the highway.  So we began to research the Alero, and went to look at one.  When we got to the dealership her attention was immediately garnered by the Auroras on the lot.  She asked me "what are these?" I told her oh these are the Cadillacs of the Oldsmobile line. She was very impressed with the appearance, she looked inside at the interior and I could tell she was inspired.  I'd already heard about the Aurora by reading about it in all the car magazines I read.  She began asking me about the car, I told her all that I knew and then I told her to look at the MSRP, and keep walking.  The Aurora she saw was an Aurora 4.0, the more expensive of the models.  She looked at the $37,478 sticker and said "whoah.. that is a lot of money".  Then she said she looked at the Aurora on the internet and the base prices were much lower, she wanted to get an idea of what the base price was on the car.  So now we were running around looking for a base model with the V6 to get some starting prices for the car.  We found a couple that were around $32,000 she said she might be able to do that at 0%, I told her it was her money.  It was already 9:30pm by the time we got to the lot. The salesmen were closing up, but one unlocked the doors and walked outside to talk with us.  

"Can I help you" he asked, I said well we were looking at Aurora's and would like to know where they base around?  He told us that we could probably get a base model for around $30,000, but it wouldn't be as nice as most of the ones he had on the lot.  Then he said "well I don't have a whole lot of time to tell you about the car I have to get home to my family, I tell you what, why don't I get you the keys to our demo model and you can take it home for the night and bring it back sometime tomorrow".  I was shocked, this guy wasn't pushy and he was really very nice.  He told us that all he needed was a copy of our Drivers License and we could get going.  A quick 8 minutes later we were off, me in my Camaro and her in the Aurora.  At 1st sight of the Demo my Girlfriend melted, the cappucino color was really nice looking on the car, the interior was a light champagne color, it all matched very well with the real walnut dash trim.  The overall appearance of the car is very impressive, the design is muscular yet perfectly subtle at the same time.  When driving the car and entering and exiting you get the feeling of a plush exciting luxury automobile, not like anything I've ever driven.  The overall experience is hard to explain, but if you drive one you will understand.

The Aurora is a very quiet, smooth riding, luxurious, sporty vehicle.  Many people don't think of the Aurora as sporty because of it's large size, but it's use of exotic materials make it fairly light on it's feet and it's engine is fairly powerful and very happy to respond to a heavy right foot.  Once you grip the leather clad steering wheel and shifter you feel the sporty side of the car waiting to respond to your need for speed.  Even with the smaller, less powerful V6 sub 8 second 0 to 60mph times are very possible.  One thing you will notice about the car is a slight bit of torque steer during hard acceleration, this is normal with just about any front wheel drive vehicle.  When you take a corner in the Aurora you will notice some road feel in the steering wheel, this is really nice to see in a luxury car by GM.  I wouldn't call this a BMW, but I would definitely say it's on par with a Lexus ES300 in driving pleasure and performance.  

Exotic materials are everywhere to be found on the Aurora, from it's real burled walnut dash, to it's all alloy engine, you can see and feel the quality materials used to produce this vehicle.  The hood, roof, and rear decklid are comprised of 6061 aluminum alloy, this is a very light yet strong form of aluminum.  Many of the suspension components also are comprised of exotic aluminums and chrome-oly's, these types of metals yield lightweights and are stain and rust resistant.  The leather in the Aurora is plush and soft, much like the leather found in Cadillacs and BMW's.  The interior plastic is "high quality" the controls for the climate control and radio are very easy to use and have a great feel to them.  Overall the interior is extraordinary, I've experienced nothing quite like it anywhere else.

Now the bad things, The leg room in the rear is tighter than it's competitors because of the large, plush, extremely comfortable front seats.  The interior in our 2001 model lacked some quality control, the plastic doesn't quite fit everywhere the way it should.  We have experienced some odd and unusual creaks and rattles.  When we hit large bumps, or crevaces in the road, a loud thud is transmitted abruptly throughout the cabin.  I know what you are thinking, "duh you hit a bump", but no this is louder than most cars for some reason.  Remember this is a 1st year model, alot of the issues I've talked about maybe resolved in later year models.

Overall I'd have to agree with "Car and Driver" the Aurora is the closest thing to a Lexus that GM has ever built.  Anyway the Aurora we purchased is loaded with just about every option except the V8.  The sticker price was $34,783, it was a demo model with about 2200 miles on it, so we got the price down to $31,200 with some free service and a spoiler thrown in.  I wouldn't pay too much attention to negative reviews, the Aurora is a great car, it's easily one of the best in GM's fleet.  We love the car, and the incentives and warranty made it one heck of a deal!  Think about it, how many cars can you buy today where 5 years later you still have a bumper to bumper warranty!  

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<