DOC>
<DOCID> 30655 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1997_Jeep_Grand_Cherokee </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_112931212932 </URL>
<TEXT>
            My Jeep Grand Cherokee is the 1997 model year with the relatively rare V8 / 2 Wheel Drive option (first available in 1997).  I purchased this combination for several reasons:

1) I do not live in a cold climate and will not need to drive in the snow or on ice.  2) I do not plan to take the Jeep off road through mud puddles or up mountains.  3) I purchased the Jeep to tow a camper and wanted the extra power.  (The 6 cylinder models I test drove did not seem powerful enough for my taste).  4) It just didn't make sense to get the 4WD with its added weight, maintenance, and complexity when I would rarely, if ever, need it.

That said, the V8 performs nicely and with the 2WD transmission it offers the best power to weight ratio in its class.  In this combination only the 1998 V8 Limited was more powerful among the 93-98 Jeep Grand Cherokee's.  On the other hand, it's no sports car - it was designed with a quiet intake and single pipe exhaust, but does OK considering it's a 3,675 pound SUV.

I figure people mainly read these reviews to find out the negatives.  Just to mention a few positives - it's a big, roomy, comfortable SUV with great towing capacity and a very strong air conditioner.  The repair parts prices are reasonable since there are so many Grand Cherokee's on the road.  Most of the engine accessories are easily accessible and all of the spark plugs & plug wires are within easy reach.  It uses only one belt to drive all the accessories and can be changed in a matter of seconds.  The V8 uses only 4 quarts of oil per change.  The engine has a timing chain (rather than a belt) and is a non-interference design.  (If the chain snaps it won't trash your engine).  

As far as problems, sometimes I wonder why people say things like:  "My Jeep's starter went bad at 62,000 miles - that would NEVER happen in a Toyota - no more Jeeps for me".  Those kind of statements seem silly because EVERY vehicle is going to have some kind of mechanical problems and glitches.  On the other hand, you will find there are far fewer recalls and TSB's (Technical Service Bulletin's) the newer the model year.  (i.e. The 94 model is more likely to have nitpicky problems than the 97).  In terms of problems / repairs my Jeep has been exactly average like every other vehicle I have ever owned or driven.

I really only have a couple complaints.  This is an example of being really picky, but I drive several vehicles, and I put a lot of miles on them, so I notice things like this:

First, I do not like the cruise control steering wheel button layout.  It seems like they took a bunch of functions and haphazardly placed them all over the steering wheel.  Some buttons are raised, others are not, and it just doesn't seem logical.  The buttons do not light up at night (in mine anyway).  To me, the ON button and SET button logically should be raised and in the most used positions.  Not so in the Jeep.  I don't understand why the SET button isn't raised but the CANCEL button is.  I also don't understand why all the speed controls (ACCEL / DECEL / CANCEL) are on the right side, but the SET button is on the left side.  It just seems strange to me.

Second, the power door lock switch moves left and right instead of up and down.  For some reason I just cannot get my brain to remember what is what.  Even a simple unlocked padlock picture would help.  To me UP/UNLOCK and DOWN/LOCK seems so much more logical to where I would never even have to think about it.  When test driving older Jeeps I noticed they DID have UP/DOWN door lock switches.  I'm not sure when they changed to side/side - I think it was the 96 model year.

Third, although my vehicle is listed as a 2WD and shows both rear tires lit up on the computer display, the fact is most 2WD models (including mine) were made without a limited slip differential in the rear axle.  So in fact, it is a one-wheel-wonder.  Under slippery conditions that back right tire will just spin and spin.  Anyone from about the Florida state line and north should probably get the 4WD model or else make sure they are getting an LSD equipped model.

Lastly, I have a lower back problem that is aggravated by side to side motion.  Unfortunately the Grand Cherokee's exhibit an odd side to side rocking motion on bumpy roads.  Now I would state that if I didn't have lower back pain I probably would never have noticed this.  On the other hand I read in Consumer Reports Used Car buying guide that the 93-98 Jeep Grand Cherokee's have an "annoying side to side rocking motion".  So maybe it's not just me.  I guess I have gotten used to it over time.  

Okay so that's just my 2 cents.  But overall I really like my Jeep Grand Cherokee and feel as though it was a good choice for my needs.

Just as a point of reference - over time I have measured these gas mileages:

18.5mpg Full highway (such as an all day interstate trip)
16.0mpg Highway/City mix (our typical daily driving)
13.5mpg City (You don't want an SUV in a traffic jam)
12.0mpg Towing our trailer on the highway (not bad actually)

If you need higher mpg you should get the 6 cylinder model, but will sacrifice roughly 40 horsepower which could be an issue depending on your driving style and towing needs.

Oh yeah, unless you have the 1998 V8 Limited model or have installed the Mopar Performance Computer (an optional performance computer) you have no need to use gas higher than 87 octane.  The factory computer is designed to use 87 octane so putting in "mid grade" or "premium" is not going to make it any faster or more powerful.  Believe me on this.  If you have an SUV you're spending enough on gas as it is!  A decent quality brand of 87 octane will work fine.

Your mileage may vary.  :)

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<