DOC>
<DOCID> 30991 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1994_Toyota_Supra </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_121085333124 </URL>
<TEXT>
                 Okay, you've seen the movie "The Fast and The Furious" and if you're reading this review you're probably wondering "is the Supra everything it's made out to be in the movie?"  In one word "Yes."  However, they are in high demand and fairly rare right now so they command a premium price.  Average-mile automatics are the most reasonably priced.  While cars equipped with the 6-speed manual may see a street price of $5,000  over blue book depending on color, mileage, and modification state.  Since the Supra is a modder's dream car, it is hard to find one that hasn't been tinkered with.  The ones that remain completely stock are usually significantly more expensive than one that has had several thousand dollars of aftermarket equipment installed.

     I have mixed feelings about the Supra's interior.  Overall it is one of the best driver-oriented interiors I have sat in.  The tachometer is smack-dab in the center of the driver's gauge pod (right where it should be).  The radio/climate control portion of the dash is also angled towards the driver.  The only thing missing is steering wheel-mounted radio controls.  All of the other controls are within easy reach of the driver.  The climate control system (while not as flashy as the 3000GT VR-4's) is simple and easy to use.  The desired temperature is set via a rotary knob.  There is also a knob for the fan control.  The rest of the functions are controlled through buttons.  While the digital clock looks a little out of place it is possible to replace it with a 52mm gauge (most people replace it with a boost gauge).  Overall the layout and design of the interior is impressive.  That said, however, the materials used leave much to be desired.  The dash material surrounding the radio, climate controls, shifter, etc... is composed of a rubbery plastic which is not very durable.  Any light abrasion will mar the surface.  These mars are impossible to repair.  So think twice about laying your MP3 player on the center console during a long trip.  Surface protectants like Armorall have mixed effects on the appearance material as well.  The plastics used in the interior mountings are also notoriously weak.  The hinges for the center console storage compartment break easily.  In fact I have yet to see a Supra without a broken center console hinge.  Also, be *very* careful if you are removing any of the interior trim.  The plastic trim pins are also very fragile.  I broke two of them removing the center console trim to run wiring for my radar detector.  Finally the leather-like material that covers many other areas of the car has a cheap styrofoam feel to it.

     My Supra came with the optional removable "Targa Roof."  The roof allows near-convertible openess when removed and hard-top-like chassis stability when on.  Removing the roof can be a bit of a pain.  First you must loosen five "targa bolts" with a special tool.  Then the roof (which is rather heavy and difficult to manage for a single person) is removed and placed in the rear deck area.  Getting roof into the rear deck area can be tricky  and takes some practice but once inside it mounts securely without rattling.  The whole process takes around five minutes so it's not a good idea to go sans-top if there is a chance of rain.  With the roof off the Supra losses a tremendous amount of rigidity.  You can expect a large amount of chassis flex with the roof off.  Wind noise is surprisingly tolerable.  Old targa seals do tend to leak however the leaking water seems to be diverted to the windows which spares the headliner material.  You can expect a few drips of water running down the driver's window in very heavy rain.  It is not advisable to run a leaky targa through a touchless car wash (without a number of strategically placed towels) as you may see a cup or more of water forced inside the car.

     The leather seats are comfortable, but nothing fantastic.  When I bought my car I endured a 1000 mile road trip from Austin, Texas (where I bought the car) to Madison, Wisconsin (where I live) in relative comfort.  The diver has power controls for their seat, however no adjustable lumbar support.  There is a wheel-control which controls the angle of the lower seat cushion (maybe this is supposed to give some sort of lumbar support).  In any case, the seat controls seem a little sparse for a car of this caliber.  As with most four seat sports cars, the back seats are useless for anyone except very small children.  Also, because of the low profile of the rear decklid and the position of the stock subwoofer there isn't a lot of luggage space in the Supra.  However, it is sufficient for a couple of suitcases.  However, I imagine most people purchasing a Supra don't really care about rear seating and luggage capacity.

     At first glance the stock stereo system seems like it would be a real winner.  The Supra comes stock with six speakers, a subwoofer, an AM/FM-CD-Tape head unit with enough buttons to dazzle nearly any gizmo lover, and a retractable power antenna.  The head unit also has a theft lock system requiring a security code if it loses battery power.  Unfortunately two of my speakers are currently "blown" so I cannot effectively review the sound quality of the stock stereo.  Even with the damaged speakers the audio is pretty good for a ten year old car.

     Mechanically the Supra was designed for performance.  It's iron block inline 6 and the Getrag 6-speed manual transmission have been pushed to over 1000 horsepower (on the stock bottom end) without failure.  It does have its problems however.  The headgaskets are known to fail after 100,000 miles and the valve stem seals also are known to fail (as has just happened with mine).  Also, like with many other Japanese cars the timing belt needs to be changed every 60,000 miles.

     The Supra is second to few in the realm of automotive performance.  Even at 10 years old it keeps pace with many of today's sports cars.  It comes stock with 12.7" vented rotors and 4-piston calipers on the front brakes (rear brakes are 12.8" rotors and 2-piston calipers).  The Supra is rated at 120 feet for 60-0 braking.  The Supra's suspension is another work of automotive achievement.  While lacking the "electronically variable suspension" present on many of its competitors the Supra excels in the twisties.  It has a published .98G lateral acceleration and cuts through the 700-foot slalom at 66 MPH.  As long as you can get the tires to stick, the Supra has blistering acceleration.  The Supra's 320 (flywheel) horsepower engine propels it to 60 MPH in 4.9 seconds.  It has published quarter-mile times of 13.5s @ 107 MPH (stock).  Stock Supras have have hit the 1/4 mile in as fast as 13.1 seconds with a competent driver.  The Supra does have a traction control system, but it is rather useless.  When it comes on, it comes on hard.

     The Supra's fuel economy is about what you would expect from a twin-turbo sports car.  It manages about 19 MPG in the city and 23MPG on the highway.  If you're spinning the turbos up from every stoplight however, be surprised if you see half that.

     By now you're saying "okay, all those numbers aside, what's it REALLY like to drive a Supra."  The Supra has rock solid handling as long as you remember one thing.  If you get on the gas coming out of a corner, the tail is going to come out.  Likewise a manual transmission Supra will effortlessly spin it's tires off the line.  You will also receive a satisfying chirp from the rear tires after a hard shift to second gear.  If your tires are cold the tires also may spin near the top of first and after a hard shift to second.  As long as the tires are grabbing the acceleration is enough to keep your passengers firmly planted in their seats.  The turbochargers are set up sequentially.  The first turbo comes on first at lower RPMs which alleviates some of the dogginess commonly associated with turbocharged cars.  The second tubo which comes on later gives a satisfying burst of acceleration in the upper RPM regions.  At highway speeds this can get you into trouble very quickly.  Simply drop the car down a gear or two, floor it, and you'll be hitting triple digits faster than you can say "unreasonable and imprudent speed".  The car doesn't have very pleasant wet-pavement manners and you need to pay close attention to your use of the gas pedal on wet roads.  Likewise aggressive shifting can easily send you sideways in slippery conditions.

     Overall the Supra is a great performance-oriented car.  What the Supra lacks in comfort, it makes up for in performance.  Those that are willing to foot the bill for this car will be rewarded with a satisfying and enjoyable driving experience.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<