DOC>
<DOCID> 31073 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Toyota_Tundra </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_8477183620 </URL>
<TEXT>
               I bought this truck mainly because I liked the looks of it.  I had previously owned a 2000 Toyota Tacoma, regular cab, 4 cylinder, manual transmission, no power, etc.  The Tundra is an upgrade for obvious reasons, but I still like it much better than its contenders.  

  I have the silver metallic color, and it's beautiful.  I got the access cab option with four doors.  It is a bit of a pain to open the front doors before you can open the back door, but it's still better than other truck designs.  The inside door handles are good for the passengers.  Many trucks have door handles on the inside of the door, which is a major hand injury risk.  One bad thing is the way the doors open.  Because you have to open the front doors before you open the back doors, you need a lot of room to access the back seat.  The truck is not really designed for super tight parking places or narrow garages, because both doors have to be wide open.  

   Also, one thing that bothers me is that the rear door doesn't have any kind of stop mechanism on it, so if you forget to shut the rear door first, the front door will slam against the rear and damage the paint on both doors.  The front doors also don't have any kind of arm to keep the door open when you're trying to unload.  I can't tell you how many times I've been hit on the legs by that heavy front door.  You just have to be careful.

  The Tundra is high off the ground, so the 2 wheel drive looks identical to the 4 wheel drive.  I like trucks up high, so this is a bonus for me.  Other trucks only look good if they are 4X4's or have been lifted.

  I love the interior of the truck.  It is very car-like in that it is made of smooth, sleek materials, soft curves everywhere, and a curvy dash.  The controls are big enough to use with gloves on, and they are easy to find.  The clock is too low for anyone's liking, but I don't think that is important.  The fog lights are great--I keep mine on all the time.  The seats are very roomy up front.  I have the 40/60 split bench seats with center console and I love riding with three people in the front.  There is plenty of room to do this, even for the person in the middle.  

  The back seat is bolt upright, since the seats are connected to the back of the cab, but it is still very comfortable.  If the cab was longer to accommodate rear passengers, the truck wouldn't look as good.  I'd rather have the looks.  Also, the backs of the front seats are very squishy so there won't be a problem with any rear passenger's knees hurting.  

  The side view mirrors are absolutely wonderful.  For a big truck, that is crucial.  You can navigate anywhere if you just watch the side view mirrors.  They are nice and large, and they do not distort anything.  They have been my savior in many tight parking situations.  The in-dash cassette/CD player that is in it is very nice and is standard among most models.  The functions are really easy to use and the six speaker sound system is pretty good.  I like to listen to my music really loud, and I blew the speakers out right away.  I think they should have been able to handle more power than they did though, so I'm not recommending the speakers.  I replaced the whole sound system because it was never going to be powerful enough for me.  I really liked the head unit CD player though.  It was too bad about the speakers.  

  The only thing I don't like about the interior is that the leathery stuff on the door panels and center console are very easy to scratch and damage permanently.  My watch even made a mark on the center console.  It's almost like skin that doesn't heal.  It's very easy to hurt it.  Also, my elbow on the drivers side is rubbing a raw spot on the arm rest fabric, and I've only had it six months.  I don't think it should be wearing out already, but I'm not too worried about it.  

  The seats are extremely comfortable, and the Tundra offers the quietest ride you'll find in a truck.  Also, the truck bed is attached to the cab so firmly, you will never hear one squeak from it.  If you close your eyes on the ride, you'd never guess you were in a pickup truck and not a luxury car (but please don't do this if you are the driver).  

  It seems to be a little bouncy with speed bumps and other small hills/potholes, but not as much as smaller trucks.  I've used it to tow a very heavy 27 foot camping trailer around, and I hardly know it's there.  It tows very well.  

  The V8 engine is great for passing people, because it can pick up so fast you'll be pressed against the back of the seat.  And the engine is so quiet!  It should be noted that the Tundra shares the same engine as the Lexus and Land Cruiser, so you know it's top quality.  

  Visibility is great, handling is great, and size is ideal.  Not too big, not too small.  Compared the the Ford F150, Dodge Ram, and Chevy Silverado, the Tundra is a tiny bit smaller.  In almost all dimensions it is 5% smaller, so it's really a 95% truck instead of a full-sized pickup.  However, the 4x2 Tundra sit up higher than any of the domestic trucks by about three inches (that's a good thing).  The 4x4's of all trucks are equal in height.  

  Mechanically, it shares Toyota's reputation for cars that run well and last forever.  I haven't had a thing done on it except oil changes, and I don't expect any problems anytime soon.  I think this truck has blown the others out of the water and I would recommend it to anyone with good taste. 

  Even if you're doubtful, do test drive a Tundra and see what you think.  
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<