DOC>
<DOCID> 32418 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Honda_Civic_2_door </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-2744-1A72A08-385A9984-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Hi kids...

Well obviously this here E-pinion has been updated about 8,000 times since I first wrote it two fu&#99king years ago, and since nobody will ever read it again, (and because I know only contempt for Epinions and who cares anyway), I'm going to tell you the full life history of my relationship with my car. Since, you know, it is my best friend and everything.

It was a hot, skanky day, August 12, 1999, and I was sitting in the incredibly uptight San Diego County Credit Union when it all started. I had been working all morning, torturing patients with needles making the dollar I needed to purchase my very first car.  And I was about to do so, once they had explained all the stupid paperwork to me. The nice man was very good to me, as I was 19 years old and didn't know jack about any of this horrendous process of transferring (relatively) large amounts of money from place to place just so they would let me have what I wanted. It only took two hours or so, and then he took me out to the parking lot where a woman was in the process of delivering my baby to me from a car dealership in Riverside. 

I had sauntered into the credit union the previous week completely set on what I wanted. I needed a car because I had work and school issues and I was sick of using my mother's bizarre Saturn to get everywhere. Plus, I would be transferring to a new school 500 miles away from home in less than a year. I needed to start doing my thing... you know, that growing-up thing. And since I'm such an independent, snotty little brat, I was quite intent on buying the car myself with money that was 100% my own, earned by my own work in the blood laboratory from hell. That aside, after some hard-core internet research and such, I had decided on the baby I wanted to purchase. 

It was (and, in fact, still is) a 1999 Honda Civic Dx Hatchback. Purple. I wanted the purple one. They also came in red, black, and silver, but I wanted the purple one. Because it's purple.

I wanted a car that would be extremely dependable, that would never die on me, that required very little gasoline, and that was lovable. My baby is all of the above.

The car I got had everything I wanted. Except a CD player and a kickass sound system. This I had installed later on. I have my priorities straight, you see. I refuse to make 9-hour drives without a sound system. I mean, please.

So I brought my baby home. My sister immediately started referring to it as "Dusty's Boyfriend." I didn't mind that, however, I don't have quite that big an attachment to the car. Because it does irritate me sometimes. After I've been driving for several hours the clutch begins to get crunchy, and now and then a part of the frame will begin to squeak, and I'll have to open the hood and the doors and slide around until I can find the exact part that is squeaking and douse it with WD40. But that's all the complaints I have about the thing. It treats me well otherwise. It loves me. Because I get the oil changed religiously. 

Not only do I get the thing lubed up every-three-months-or-3000-miles-whichever-comes-first, but I also pay strict attention to the tires and keep the interior and exterior spotlessly clean. Because I'm clean like that. 

Car tires are my curse, you see. I've suffered through at least five flat tire episodes since I got my driver's license back in 1996.  Large screws are highly attracted to me. They jump off the road at me, and end up planting themselves firmly in the tire of whatever vehicle I am driving. My Little Purple Love Machine has been through three of the at least five flat tire episodes. Triple-A knows me by name and license plate by now. In fact, I haven't had a flat tire in a year and a half... I'm due. Just watch.

So I keep its tires inflated to precisely 35 psi, and if it drops, I know innately. 

I also keep the exterior clean. When I bought the beast I had a sealant put over the paint, because purple happens to be the worst color in the world for car paint. Every microscopic speck of dirt becomes obscenely huge and glaringly obvious. When I'm at home I can take the hose to it, but here in lovely Davis, CA, I must visit Little Bear's Car Wash now and then to give it a scrubbing with the foam brush. And that water sprayer... that's just a little too much fun... but we won't go there.

Every time I go on a journey home, all the way down the length of this terribly long state I live in, I have to wash the car thoroughly. It's a strange compulsive habit. I won't make a long drive unless the car is sparkling in its purple glory. So off to Little Bear's we go... the car gets the foam brush, the water sprayer, the spotless rinse, and then a rub-down with the clean towels (our favorite part). Then, all the windows must be cleaned with generic-Windex-alternative, inside and out (especially inside), and all of my rubbish in the back seat has to be rearranged (my box with my windex-alternative, tire cleaner, paper towels, and a small teddy bear which I got as a birthday gift from my friend Olga before I moved away... *sniffle*) and my squeegee, ice scraper (yes we get ice in Sacramento... I can't believe it either, it make me want to cry), and my San Diego County street atlas, which does me absolutely no good when I'm living up here, but I keep on the seat because it reminds me of home. Also I have to make sure Claude the Crab is doing all right up on his perch on the fold-out cover that goes over the trunk under the hatchback. Claude has been there for a year and half and has accompanied me on all my road trips.

My road trips. There's a story. One that everyone knows already, but a story nonetheless.

Every three months or so I have to drive home and back to school, which is 523 miles, the short way. That's 8 hours if I haul as&#115, and 9 hours if there's traffic in Los Angeles. It's over 600 miles if I go the long way, down the coast. Usually, my plans take me home the long way, and back to school the short way, the entire circuit being over 1000 miles total. My car hates me when I do this.

In my UC Davis career thus far, I've done the one-way drive exactly eleven times.  My car already had stacked mileage before I began doing that, since my job required quite a bit of driving, up to 80 miles per day (San Diego is bigger than you'd think, I tell you), and my only saving grace was the low mpg on this little purple baby. I can make it from San Diego to Sacramento the short way (a straight shot up Interstate 5) on just over one tank. Perhaps even under one tank, although I've never been brave enough to try that. Once it gets to 1/4 tank I fill the thing up. Usually that occurs in Patterson, which is south of Stockton. So, I'm pretty sure I could make it all the way to Davis without running out. Just don't wait for me to try it. I've been traumatized by those flat tires, remember.

The long way, down Highway 101, cannot be done in one tank. I'm below half by the time I get from Davis to Salinas or nearby, especially if I joyride in the Bay Area, and I usually stop in King City to fill up the tank. And again in Buellton. I always stop in Santa Barbara to see my sister, but unfortunately, Santa Barbara has approximately one gas station, so I'd rather not do the deed there.

The car treats me well on this type of drive, except for that little issue with the clutch becoming fussy after too many hours on the road. It works fine, it just feels weird and makes me creep out.  Basically, all you need to do is keep the baby fed with gasoline and it will go forever.

Like I've previously mentioned, I cannot sit through such a drive without my blessed CD player.  The car did not come with said apparatus, but I don't blame it. 

Between long drives, the Love Machine sits patiently outside Casa Dusty, #28, and waits for me to grumpily pile in every morning long about 7:30 as I drag my pathetic self to my 8 am class this quarter. Every other day I bring my dorky roommate along to share the six-or-seven-minute drive, and the dude can barely fit. He's all of 6'2" and he sits with his head creating an impression in the squishy soft ceiling of the car. That's nobody's fault, though. Some people are just born freaks. Oops, did I just say that?

Anyway, the car is utterly dependable every single day, and if it wasn't, I'd leave it in a second.  No car runs my life, man.  Maybe that's why I picked a purple one. So I could dominate it. Oh hush, I'm just kidding, jeez.

And then, when I don't have to be anywhere or have any errands to do, I get into the Love Machine and drive aimlessly. This is cool country out here, miles upon miles of farmland and riparian woodland and then the stupid metropolitan mess that is Sacramento, California. Sometimes we go over there to go to the music store. The car does not have a single ounce of appreciation for the gravel parking lot there. Sometimes I fear the thing will just fall apart into a small, compact pile of purple twisted wreckage after that kind of abuse.

But no, my baby will never fall apart. It can't! Not now! Not until I have a career and escape from the torture that is college (which is but an extended childhood, of course). Right now, I'm running on my phlebotomy stint, still after all this time. God, how sad.

Might I just add, this is not a good car to attempt to have sex in. Just thought I'd add that.

Don't look at me like that.

This has been a nonsense rambling about my Little Purple Love Machine. It is absolutely not the one in the picture that Epinions has so graciously supplied for this category, which is the one I originally posted this review under, remember, two fu&#99king years ago, which back then had the correct picture. The portrait of my Love Machine in a sultry one-hipped pose, from an angle. My god.

I expect to continue my passionate relationship with this vehicle for a long time yet, as I've only had it for two and a half years and it's still practically new.

True, it is wussy, but it is still my baby.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<