DOC>
<DOCID> 34092 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/615136_RCA_CDS6300_Digital_Camera </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_39898877572 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Here's the technical stuff:

 - 2.3 MegaPixel Digital Still Camera.
 - 2.3 MegaPixel Resolution (1792 x 1200).
 - 3X Optical Zoom Precision Lens.
 - 4X Digital Zoom.
 - 1.8 LCD Screen.
 - AutoShot Technology-Just Point and Shoot.
 - CompactFlash Storage (8 MB included).
 - Macro Focus.
 - Built-In Flash with Red-Eye Reduction.
 - Burst and Multi Modes for Action Photography.
 - USB/RS232/NTSC Output.
 - All Cables and Software included.
 - Duracell Ultra II Batteries included.

Now here are MY thoughts - that is why you came here, isn't it?

I've been looking for a digital camera for a while now. While the price of these things has held me in check, I finally realized that I had to own one. But I didn't want to shell out hundreds of dollars to take pictures that were grainy. I wanted real quality - a reason to NOT use my regular camera.

So here's where this RCA digital camera comes in. It has a 2.3 megapixel resolution - that's good, girls and boys. Really good.  The prints look almost as good as a 35 mm print. OR, they look the SAME as when I scan in a 35 mm picture and print it. So now I have a reason to take this puppy along with me to family functions. 

And then there's the convenience of a digital camera. I LOVE not having to take my film in to be developed. I simply hook the camera up to the computer using the USB hookup (that comes with it!!), and then upload the pictures to my computer. From there, I can edit the pictures using either the bundled software, or any other film editing software.

The camera comes with a compact flash card. Unfortunately, it is only 8 mb. On the highest setting, it will only hold 6 pictures, so you will definitely want to purchase a larger compact flash card. We picked up a 64 mb for 59.99, so I wouldn't pay much more than that. 

There are 3 image settings that you can use to take pictures.  
 Economy (640 x 480 resolution)
 Normal (Maximum resolution with medium compression)
 Fine (Maximum resolution with no compression)

If you need to store more photos, you can use the economy or normal settings - however, the quality won't be as good. I say just get a good size compact flash card and take all pictures in fine mode - that way they always look great.

There are 4 capture modes as well. 
 
 Normal: This takes a standard picture. 

 Macro: This lets you take a close-up. You can't use the    flash.
 
 Multi: This lets you take 16 pictures on 4 seconds. All 16 images are stored as 1 file - but this is done at a lower resolution to save space. It is good for action shots, although I've never used it personally.

 Burst: This lets you take 8 quick pics to make a sort of slideshow effect. They are stored as 8 files, but the resolution is also set low, just like in multi. Again, I haven't had a need for this setting, although I'm sure I will use it at some point.

The camera has 4 flash modes as well.

 No Flash: I think this is pretty self-explanatory.

 Auto Flash: The camera flashes when needed, and doesn't if it isn't needed.

Forced Flash: Flashes with every picture.

Red-eye Reduction Flash: It is a quick flash to reduce red-eye in your shot.

There is even a timer so that you can set the camera on a tripod and get in the picture yourself.

Of course, all of these settings are easily maneuvered through in a handy display screen right next to the LCD screen. There are corresponding icons to go with every setting. You can't go wrong. 

One of the great things about an LCD display is that you can look at your picture after you have taken it. Then you can decide if you need to take the shot over. (Much better than picking up film a week later only to learn that the One-Of-A-Kind picture of 5 generations that you'll never be able to take again had everyone's heads cut off.)

The camera can be hooked up to your computer through the serial port or USB port. USB is faster, so use it if you can. You can also hook it up to your TV or VCR.

Learning to use this camera is a breeze - it truly is. And it makes taking pictures so much fun. And what's more, if you take lots of pictures - like me - you'll probably save money on film in the long run. My husband swears that I personally have kept Kodak in business since our daughter was born. (And why wouldn't he want to see 17 pictures of Teresa asleep when she was 1 week old?)

My only problem with the camera has been the battery use. Not even that it uses them up quickly, so much as it won't operate unless the batteries are COMPLETELY full. Maybe I have a defect, I don't know. But I think we'll switch to rechargeable, regardless. It also comes with a cord so you plug it into the wall when convenient.

All in all, I think this camera will make me happy - at least until a 5 megapixel camera comes out!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<