DOC>
<DOCID> 34349 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1990_Volkswagen_Corrado </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/auto-review-3146-6931076-397843F0-prod1 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Back in early 1991 I needed a replacement for my aging 1987 Acura Integra LS.  The Integra had served me well but after almost 160K miles of troublefree basic commuting, I was ready for something sporty.  Having been a VW fan for many years I headed down to the VW dealer.  I originally planned to get a GTI since the Corrado was considerably more money.  Luck would have it, VW wasn't selling many Corrados and the dealer had four leftover 1990 models.  All 1991 Corrados were automatics and that was out of the question.  For $15,000 flat I picked up a brand new white Corrado with the necessary 5 speed.

The car was such a drastic change from my tired Integra in so many aspects that I kept looking for any excuse to drive it.  The seats were outstanding and the driving position was flawless.  The dashboard's ergonomics were excellent as well.  Air conditioning was many levels above the old Acura's.  Despite its small size, it never seized to amaze me how much would actually fit inside the car, even without knocking down the rear seats.

The Corrado is probably the best handling car I have ever owned after I replaced the stock springs and shocks, which wore prematurely at 40K miles in my opinion.  A set of Neuspeed springs and strut brace along with Bilstein Sports converted the car from a fine handler into an absolute road carver.  I cannot recommend those modifications enough.  When I sold the car many years later with well over 115K miles, the suspension still felt tight and new.  Definitely a huge improvement over stock.

The engine was troublefree, if a little underpowered.  Off the line the VW was lunch to almost every other GT car on the road.  Once on the highway the car came into its own and could move very rapidly.  In the Autobahn that is definitely a good trait.  In the US I would have preferred to have more acceleration.  Oh well, a Neuspeed chip and K&amp;N cone filter helped correct that, but still fell short of the wonderful VR6 available in later Corrados.

The transmission was not the smoothest and did not shift as nicely with 10K miles as my Integra had with 160K miles.  On the other hand, I never replaced the clutch and it was still shifting beautifully at 120K miles (my best friend bought the car from me).  That's one of the Corrado's weak points, shifter feel.

Maintenance was also a slight headache with the car.  Due to its rarity and the fact that my car was a very early 90, some of the parts were not interchangeable with the later 90, 91 and early 92 models.  The price of parts, even after exhausting every possible discount I could muster, was still exorbitant.  In comparison, my 1990 BMW 325is cost me about half to maintain over the same mileage, not only on the hourly rate but also the cost of parts.  I am guessing that maintaining a Corrado is about the same as maintaining a 1988-1991 BMW M3.  The price of uniqueness.

Problem areas included the sunroof, water drainage, rear spoiler, wheel bearings and batteries.  The sunroof started giving me trouble after the second year.  Many times I had to close it via the manual crank provided because the electric motor would open it and then refuse to close it.  Many visits to the dealer finally corrected the problem.  Thankfully I had an extended warranty.

One lesson I learned the hard way was to keep the drain hole on the passenger fender clear from any debris.  If I parked anywhere near a tree for extended periods of time, I found that leaves could easily slip down below the hood and clog the drain hole on the passenger fender.  Unfortunately, this was next to the air conditioner intake vent.  Water would immediately flood the area and find its way inside the car.  One morning I actually found about an inch of water inside the car on the passenger side.

The rear spoiler, which would raise automatically when the car exceeded 45mph and would lower again when the speed fell below 10mph, was also a little gremlin.  After a couple of years, it would raise automatically and then blow a fuse on the way down.  I ended up disconnecting it and leaving it in the down position.  My friend who bought the car ended up replacing the motor, which turned out to be a costly repair for a trivial item.

I had both wheel bearings go south on me when the car had about 80K miles.  Again, thank you extended warranty!  The car also had a tendency to eat batteries.  I took it to the dealer six times to have it looked at and they found nothing.  I took it to an automotive electrical system expert and he found nothing.  Still, in 5.5 years I replaced the battery four times, two VW units and two DieHard units.

When I sold my Corrado I began looking for a VR6 model, the SLC.  The SLC is a huge improvement in almost every aspect over the G60, it is smoother, faster, better equipped and has gobs more power than the supercharged four.  The one area I found the G60 superior in was handling.  Even before I made the suspension modifications, the G60's handling felt sharper than the SLC's.  I ended up buying another four cylinder German car, a Porsche 968.

My overall experience with the Corrado, despite its very high maintenance costs and unscheduled visits to the dealer, is a positive one.  I have never kept a car as long as I did that one, and I still kind of regret having sold it.  The Corrado definitely gets under your skin.<br><br>
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<