DOC>
<DOCID> 34504 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1999_Pontiac_Sunfire </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_42987327108 </URL>
<TEXT>
            We found ourselves in need of some economical transportation when the wife started a pet sitting business. Being a GM employee, we limited ourselves to the compact models that were in the GM family. We chose the 1999 Pontiac Sunfire SLE predominantly based upon financial terms and incentives occurring at the time. We would have rather purchased a Saturn at the time in all honesty.

Two and a half years and 66000 miles later, I feel that I can give some constructive feedback on this vehicle. The powertrain combination is the standard 2.2L 4 cylinder engine coupled to a 3 speed automatic. This combination performs as I would expect: adequate acceleration with little "oomph" to spare. This combination results in an average fuel economy in the mid 20s (combined driving) which is a little disappointing these days when I hear of mid size and even some large cars getting the equivalent mpg. The spark plugs and wires were replace at about the 55000 mile mark and is the only non-preventative maintenance that had to be performed on the powertrain so far. The engine does not burn oil and is relatively quiet. Under the hood access appears to be sufficient to work on most if not all components associated with the engine which should make the auto technicians (or wannabe's) happy. I'm starting to notice a periodic hesitation with the engine when the A/C is running which just showed up within the last 10k miles or so. 

The automatic transmission is the more basic of the two that were offered as options in 1999. It has been trouble-free up to this point. I believe that the 4 speed automatic would have definitely improved my fuel economy results.

The cloth interior has held up well to date and this even though the wife routinely hauls a 120 pound Akita in the back seat. The front seats are of average comfort level in my opinion which means that after 4 or 5 hours of driving, it is time for a break. The back seat area is surprisingly roomy for a car this size and can seat 3 average size adults in reasonable comfort. Head room is adequate as well.

The dash panel rattles in the corners where it meets the windshield. The layout of the instrument cluster is functional, but the electronics are flawed in my opinion. The instrument cluster was replace once because the odometer wasn't working (which is real important to my wife's business). This second cluster has a fuel gage that floats REAL BAD when down to 1/4 tank of gas. The original did not do this. The wife tells me that the odometer on this one is periodically acting up. Will this be cluster #3? The layout of instrument controls are adequate unless you have something in the cup holder. The cup holder location is down right assinine! It is sandwiched between the shift console and the controls area of the dash. When grabbing your drink or cup, you have to make a conscious effort to look where you are grabbing. The AM/FM/CD player preset buttons require a conscious effort to look at as well when going to change radio stations. The stereo system was the best offered at the time. The volume control knob hasn't worked correctly since the car had less than 25k miles on it. We let it go instead of bringing it in for warranty because of laziness mainly. I am disappointed that there is absolutely NO power ANYTHING in this car unless you get the top of the line trim. I would expect at the very least a remote trunk release.

The seals along the lower section of the doors are inadequate in my opinion and alot of dust gets by these seals and into the car as well as along the rocker areas. The door closing efforts as well as the deck lid efforts are good unlike the effort it takes to close the hood. You would think that if you dropped the hood down on its latch at a height equal to the prop rod's length that sufficient force would be generated to close the hood. Not on this car! You have to push down like when performing CPR on the center of the hood to get it to latch. It makes me nervous when doing this because the hood appears a bit flimsy to me.

If one was to look at the back of the car, you would notice that the factory did a poor job of making the gaps on either side of the deck lid even. Many people wouldn't give this a second thought, but I just happen to work in a GM body shop and so it bugs me. The rest of the gaps and panel flushness are ok based on eye perception. I didn't go around with a measuring device to check to see if they were in spec or anything like that.

The wife drives this vehicle the majority of the time. I would describe my driving experience with it as "same-oh,same-oh". It isn't bad, but it doesn't do anything for me either. I guess I don't feel that "Driving Excitement that Pontiac advertises. The car was purchased for a specific reason and it has performed to our expectations relative to this reason. This car is best suited for basic transportation or very first car status. It has been on several road trips and I definitely can't wait to purchase a large sedan or something more suitable for these trips that we have to make. Just the addition of cruise control would make a world of difference in this car.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<