DOC>
<DOCID> 34693 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_BMW_X5 </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_86842707588 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Since 2001, the BMW X5 has been turning heads and wowing drivers all over... The X5 is a standout vehicle in the SAV class...Notice I said S A V class. I notice alot of reviewers, and also fellow X5 owners critiquing and or commenting on the X5 as if it were just another SUV. First off, there is nothing typical about this vehicle, so to dispell the first myth, the phrase "just another" is out the window. Like all Bimmers I've encountered/driven, this one is engineered fantastically well. The comfort level and drivability of this vehicle are demonstative of the painstaking efforts taken to fuse together both the performance associated with the BMW name as well as the comfort AND the idea of melding those with the utility of a Sport Activity Vehicle. 

I hear alot of people who like to call the X5 (as well as the Lexus RX and the Acura MDX) a yuppie's SUV...perhaps this is not too far from the truth -- and rightfully so. First off, I have never gotten into a truck which felt just so comfortable in the drivers seat. The plush leather interior feels even better than it smells, and that is saying alot. The whole cockpit is designed with creature comfort in mind PLUS that true "driver's car" feel which BMW has sought after for so many years. One concern I had when first going to test drive the vehicle is a potential dissapointment that this would not be a true "driver's car." I must admit, I've owned many Bimmers, including a 328 and a 540 (now a 330 though), which have all been wonderful driving cars. I once pondered the idea of selling my 540 for a 740, as more of a family oriented sedan...what I found was a terrible disapointment - the 7 just wasn't the driver's car I expected back then (though happily the 740 has become quite a wonderful vehicale since). Happily the X5 IS A DRIVERS CAR (packaged deceivingly in a truck's clothing) and it certainly picks up (in the SAV arena) where the 5 series leaves off in the automobile arena. 

For 2003, BMW has built in even more flexibility in the options of the X5, for now you have your choice of three different engines -- the stock V6, with an ample 225 horsepower, the awesome 4.4 liter V8 with a super impressive 290 horsepower, and lastly the brutal 4.6 liter V8, producing a whopping 340 horsepower!  The base price of 40k is not unreasonable, and the V6 has plenty of umph... However after you get done adding the "toys" you'll find yourself in the realm of 47-58 depending on how severely your itch to buy gets you *(and assuming you stick to the 4.4 liter V8.)  However once you get into the 4.6 V8 the base price jumps to an intimidating 66,000 dollars!  Certainly not for the squeamish nor the faint of wallet!  I felt that the 4.4 liter V8 was a must have, despite the V6's ample power -- The 6 is nothing to sneeze at, but for this price, having test driven both veicles a few times each, I just had to take the V8.  With the 8 cylinder, the truck takes off like a little rocketship, and with the incredibly engineered suspension, this thing is just an absolute blast!  The sport package combined with 19" sport rims adds gorgeous low profile look.  Sport wheels are a great asthetic addition PLUS I found a noticeable handing and steering feel difference which I liked, the lower-profile tires have an inherently stiffer sidewall, and for this reason, helps make the truck feel even more glued to the road.  Some people criticized the vehicle because steering felt "too tight." personally, I LIKE that sports-car like tight-steering feel...it reminds me of the tight rack-and-pinion steering on my Pininfarina, however of course the X5 is powered, while my italian sports car is not. Aside from deciding on whether or not to take on the considerable pricetag, I believe the hardest decision you'll be making regarding this vehicle is what options to buy... BMW's well thought out and intuitive design team has done an excellent job, to the point that no matter what options you go for, you won't be dissapointed -- Nevertheless, my weak-link is that I have a strong tendency to second guess myself... Having driven and experienced both engines, my gut just said, "the Eight is a must" and so the deal was done!

I have always favored German engineering over japanese, and havnig driven both the RX and the Acura MDX, I'd have to give the nod to the X5 based on the sportiness and aggressive feeling, however all three vehicles are more than worth investigating, and truly you could find yourself happy with any of the three. Ultimately, I decided that the BMW offered the best of every aspect I was concerned with (comfort, agility, looks) the only part I was a little taken back by was the price tag, which for me ended up being around 58,300...  Granted, times have changed recently - you have the Hummer H2 in the 50K range (review coming shortly BTW) not to mention a myriad of other SAVs and SUVs popping up all over tha place and from all kinds of manufacturers (from Denali, to Yukon to RX to Pilot... it is certainly a busy time in the U.S. truck and SAV/SUV market!

A word about the V8 -- It is either a 10,000 dollar option or a 24,000 option!!!.  Now you get a choice of 2 different V8's, the first is a 290 horsepower 4.4 liter which tacks on exactly 10 grand to the base price.  The second engine is a MOSTROUS 4.6 liter V8 which makes 340 peak horsepower and pushes your base price to 66 thousand!  Needless to say, I myself took the 4.4 thanks!  10 grand was enough, though that monster 340 HP V8 for 24,000??  Go drive it, and if you have the extra money in your wallet, you may have a hard time deciding.  For the record, the 6 cylinder makes 225 horsepower- it is very capable and plenty for this vehicle.  However the difference between 225 and 290, is alot - I thought it was easily worth 10 g's, it comes with a wonderful power curve and a super responsive feel.  I bought it because it was super powerful and I felt that a sport truck deserved a sporty powerplant. However the 6 cylinder is nothing to scoff at, and with the added savings, I would say most people would be hard pressed to make an argument against it, unless they had plenty of money and really wanted that extra power. In short, before getting turned off by the price, consider that the V6 will give you more than ample power and therefore might bring the vehicle into your financial reach without leaving you second-guessing not buying certain amenities... FOr me of course, the option was not an option, the 4.4 V8 is just that responsive! 

As for space, please consider that none of the trucks in this SAV class are going to give you the "acreage" afforded you by a Lincoln navigator or by the even bigger SUV's. Some criticized this truck as being "too small for the money"... Personally I believe those people didn't make a very well thought out decision;  Do you really need a truck that is big enough to essentially call a second home??  I'm a working drummer and have quite a few interests which require a larger vehicle (from surfing to skydiving, and many more!)  Needless to say, the X5 affords me plenty of room, a ton of creature comforts and by god, a ride that is just so confidence inspiring and powerful, it feels like a car on stilts, which is exactly how I refer to this awesome machine! 

Handling with the sport package...in short, I live near a twisty parkway on which many people like to go fast...I've felt NO torsional body roll going considerably above the speed limit...I call the truck "my 540 on stilts." It is a BMW and those expecting the cream of the crop out of the X5 will not be disapointed.  The transmission shifts flawlessly and really is melded pretty seemlessly with the pwoer curve of the 4.4 liter V8, though even the 6 cylinder feels plenty peppy, and like typical German engineering, the truck is impressive in all three engine confirgurations.  As I mentioned earlier, the 19" rims really make a noticeable handling difference, and combined with the sporty and aggresively tuned suspension, the stock X5 feels nothing like a typical SUV, it is very agile and I felt that on the road, the truck offered impressive feedback and predictability -- more then the MDX, which was my next choice.  Unlike the vast majority of the competition, there is no steering slop and the truck maintains a very neutral stance and predictable manner steering under power.  In short, the Bimmer gives you the best of all worlds, meaning the looks, the performance AND the creature comforts!  There are alot of ways which this machine continues to impress me, but above all, it is the "driver's car" feel which keeps my smiling again and again.

To all prospective buyers, good luck and make your option decisions carefully, I would hate to hear about anyone second guessing themselves with the old "woulda-coulda-shoulda" dance. This is the hands-down best SAV I've driven and I am a very happy owner with 4400 miles on mine so far, I've already taken 2 major trips to Maine (from NY) and I can't get enough of driving this car. 
To recap, I myself felt that given the 40K base of the V6 X5, for ten grand more, it was still a very fair deal - the 4.4 simply flies for a truck (though again, the X5 feels like hardly that!).  However with a base price of over 66 thousand dollars, the 4.6 definitely fades on value -- If you have to have the top-top model and have money to burn, why not...However the 4.4 has plenty of juice, and I continue to be wowed at how well rounded my 4.4 liter is -- I'm happy to say that thus far, I've not once second guessed my purchase!  In all formats, BMW has really gone the extra mile to take a truck to an entirely new plane.  I shopped for a long time and I've driven just about everything the competition has thrown, but time and time again the X5 has come out on top.  A truly remarkable vehicle, BMW's X5 has hit the bullseye on every level.. BRAVO!

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<