DOC>
<DOCID> 35423 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_MINI_Cooper </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_87230484100 </URL>
<TEXT>
            This car is fun! I had to get the Cooper S just because it has more horsepower and has slightly cosmetic queues that made it look sportier. The regular MINI is in the 115hp range, the Cooper S (Supercharged) has 163hp. This car is fun to drive, fun to corner, and a real head turner. As with my old 1962 Cooper, this one is the bigger brother. It's got all the comfort features the '62 didn't, like a radio :-)

This 'small' car has stiff sports suspension and one top rated car magazine had a slalom speed faster than a Porsche 911. This car can stick on corners, just don't over do the law of physics.

OPTIONS:
The Sports package and the Premium package is all you really need.

The sunroof is awesome, it covers 75% of your roof, it's front area opens and tilts, the rear area is just a moonroof. Both areas use the BMW retracting sunshade as found on the BMW 5/7-series. It's not too bad, it doesn't block 100% of the light, so it still gives the car brightness.

The Xenon lights are bright. They are also self-leveling. When you turn them on you see them adjust horizontally. As you drive up or down hills, the light will aim it so that the light is beamed at a horizontal plane, and not up in the air or down in the ground.

Unless you live in a winter climate, the comfort heated seat option are useless.

The Nav is still CD based, so I'd recommend waiting for DVD if you really want NAV it'll cost you $1600 or just learn to use a map. 

I haven't experienced the Harmon Kardon radio unit. The stock radio is fine for my taste.

And I believe starting with cars delivered in Feb 2003, it includes the updated sports steering wheel with thumb rests at 10 and 2 o'clock, and the metal sports pedals.

As for PDC (parking distance controller), for this tiny car, yea right.

INTERIOR:
The front seats are roomy, if you've got long legs or have to drive 4 people then the car might not be fun for the passengers. There really isn't much leg room in the back unless the front seat is scooted up, if you're 5'6"+ then you can still fit in the back if the front passenger seat is slid up half way.

The boot (trunk) has adequate space for grocery and small boxes/items. Don't try to haul golf clubs, they'll only fit if you have the rear seats folded. I've yet to try to squeeze a mountain bike through the hatch, the manual says it's doable... I'll have to wait and see.

The interior dash looks like the original Mini's. The speedometer is located in the center of the dash, with the tach right behind the steering wheel. If you opt for the Nav, the speedo gets moved to behind the steering wheel. Included is a single-indash CD player, and the multi-function steering wheel that allowed you to control the stereo from buttons located behind the 9 and 3 o'clock position.

I got the car with cloth seats. They don't look that great in pictures, but in person they're really nice. They're firm and the material feels coarse, as not to slide you when you corner. I didn't like the leatherette look and the leather was over $1000 option.

Overall the car's quality is BMW. No rattling noise, solid doors and handles, and has some cool 'features'. One is the convenience option that allows you to open both windows and sunroof (if opted) by pressing down the unlock button on your remote. Great for a hot car in the summer. 

WARRANTY:
Starting with 2003, the warranty is 4yr/50k miles with 3yr/36k miles of free maintenance service. The car tells you how many more miles you have until you have to get it services and for which kind of servicing (oil, inspection, ...).

DISLIKES:
Well the pet peeve I have is the tramlining observed on grooved pavement. Tramlining is when your tires follow the lines/grooves on a road surface. On California freeways, they groove parts of the pavement for wet weather traction. This car tends to wander while you drive over it. The overall concensus on the forums I've read, is due to the 17" Pirelli runflat tires. If you switch to a non-directional tire, the tramline effect goes away. I haven't switched out the tires so I don't have first hand knowledge if it is true.

Brake dust, as with all BMW's you'll get a lot of brake dust on your rims. White rims turn dark gray within days... 
nothing really you can do about it.

So I placed an order on this car from a Bay Area dealer that charges markup, while I don't agree with them marking up "hot new car", it seems to be the norm these days. Dealers without markup have 12 month waits just to start the order. I won't go over the trade-offs on buying cars with markup vs MSRP.

The car could make better use of the interior and have more storage area or at least useful areas where there is storage compartment.

ADD-ONS:
I recommend getting the 3M invisi-shield headlight protection film. It doesn't take long to put on, and it protects the headlight lens from cracking from rocks. The lights are pretty big and I'm sure BMW expensive to replace.


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<