DOC>
<DOCID> 3818 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Honda_CR-V </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_77218745988 </URL>
<TEXT>
            This is a long review, let's get that out of the way first.  It was hard to separate the buying experience from the car itself when writing this review.  I'd like to help others by warning them away from the dealer I used, but I realize that I'd only be serving a small part of the country.  Yet the fact is that in order to find one of these things at a decent price and in a timely manner, you have to go to a high-volume dealership, and therein lies the problem.

How I found the dealer and then the car was by using the same technique I later saw explained elsewhere in these reviews--by filling out a form on Autobytel and asking for a dealer that charged list price.  I promptly received a message that a dealer some 40 minutes from me would be calling.  So much for opting in.

Two hours later I got the call.  After considerable discussion, in which I was told how in-demand cars are allocated, distributed, matched to willing buyers and then sold, he took my name and model preference (color, trim level, etc.), which was a 5-speed EX.  I was told that if there were two or more buyers looking for the same model, then issues such as the value of the trade-in would come into play.  When I asked whether returning customers would be given preference, I was told that they would not.

We later learned that a many expectations one might consider normal, such as general knowledge of new car features and proper installation of authentic Honda accessories, for example, could not be assumed to be so.

In any case, after checking model availability, I was given the choice of a 5 speed in either black or silver that could be delivered in two weeks, along with any number of automatics if desired, but if I wanted a 5-speed in any other color than those, it could take up to 60 days.  He told me that their sales ratio of automatics to 5-speeds--an $800 option, by the way--was approximately 9-to-1.  I managed to sell my wife on silver, and offered my AMEX card number as a place holder.  The deal was made.

Of course, we still had to present our trade-in to get an offer and pick the accessories we wanted.  After receiving a $1000-lower assessment than either Edmunds.com or Consumer Reports, I managed to get them up another $500 and obtain a 10% discount on the accessories I wanted, as I figured that for some accessories, it would be a good idea to get them covered under the new car's 3-year, 36-month umbrella warranty, as follows: the security system (more on this later), rain guards (which were beginning to come off the LX demo we had test-driven), front splash guards (interestingly, although AWD uses the front wheels 90% of the time, you only get the rear guards for free), a leather steering wheel cover (OK, I was stupid), wheel locks (which should come with the alloy wheels but were ultimately tossed in anyway), and fog lights.  For other authentic Honda (and Acura) accessories, my source normally would be A&H Motorsport (http://www.ahmotor.com).

The EX-series is the only way to go, by the way--loading up an LX will kill you on price and leaves out the possibility of ABS or a moonroof (and side airbags, if I recall correctly).  We drove an automatic LX that was loaded to the gills, and while it was smooth and easy to maneuver, I hated the dash-mounted shift lever, which makes it necessary to look at the dash to see exactly what gear you're in.  Plus, it's mechanically arranged in such a way that you have to dance your way down into the gear you want, without a real gate to guide you.  Plus, call me crazy, but I will never own a car that puts your life and that of anyone in front of it in the hands of a computer-controlled vehicle.

Anyway, now we prepare to wait the proposed two weeks, except that two days later we get a congratulatory call--it's in!  I've heard of hurry-up-and-wait, but never wait-and-hurry-up.  I'm getting a kind of hinky feeling at this point.  It's like the feeling a cop gets when talking to a witness trying to hide something--something isn't quite right.

Another couple of days later we get another call--it's ready and can we please come in on Saturday and get it?  Saturday?  How about Monday, when you aren't so inundated by end-of-year sales promotions?  Nope, "they" really like to see the cars leave the lot as soon as they're ready.  OK, fine.  Big mistake, by the way.

Saturday comes and we're pumped.  New car, CD changer, the works.  We get there, and it's busy as heck and we have to wait, but things ultimately progress.  We turn down the extended warranty, go through the paperwork--easily the most enjoyable aspect of the entire buying experience, if that tells you anything--and then the first telltale sign of Trouble in Paradise occurs: the salesman can't figure out the security system, and after failing to successfully open the car without setting it off, tells us that if we have any problems, don't call him.  Great.  Then he tells us another car he's delivering is being pulled into an adjoining slot.  I think I can see the dollar signs shining in his eyes.  He's got to go--any problems?  No?  Hey, thanks a lot and good luck.  Fine, see-ya.

We get into the car, buckle up and pull out.  It took about 200 yards before we figured out that the Air Conditioning wasn't working--it was 84 degrees out and really humid.  We pull onto 202 North from West Chester, PA on our way home to East Norriton, and call the salesman from the car.  He's with another customer and can't really talk right then, but tells me it's highly unusual and they'll make it right, even give us a loaner if necessary, so call on Monday and schedule a time to bring it back in.

My wife, who has up until now been patient as she watched her favorite car get traded in, now sees what looks for all the world like a major disaster heading our way, and as a result is about to go to DEFCON 4, because we did the unfathomable.  We paid CASH!

Forty minutes of new-car smell and hot, humid, stifling unconditioned airlessness later, we get home.  Pulling into the garage, I notice that the fog lights don't work, either.  Another call.  More comforting talk.

Monday I call and Tuesday I go in, leave the car and ask for a loaner.  "Sir, we don't do loaners, only rentals.  But it's no problem, it'll be charged to Sales".  Great--here's his name.  Forty minutes later I'm back home, thinking that the dull silver Accord they gave me may be the most inconspicuous car I've ever seen, much less driven.

Our car is done late the next day, but given the south-bound rush-hour traffic on 202, I go in the day after.  I pick it up and yes, the air conditioning and fog lights work.  I am (almost) OK with the world.  Except that 40 minutes later, as I get out of the car in our garage, I try to arm the security system, and it won't.  Looks like it's in permanent valet mode--no blinking lights, no horn, no nothing.  I hit the book, try everything five times, then call service, followed by my friend in the business--Mr. "highly unusual".  Your service department is underwhelming, I say.  "You're talking to the wrong guy", he says.  "Besides, I'm with another customer--have you read the book?"  Yup.  "Have you made an appointment to bring it back in?"  Yup.  And you are the right guy, I'm thinking.  And I'm going to call you every time this happens.

So back it goes again and they re-install the security system, mumbling something about how you have to try programming it a number of times until it "takes", and after my requested demo, I see that it and everything else works fine, so I hit the road, but not before I politely decline their offer of a free 3500-mile service and oil change.  Sure, more service--that'll work.

We got the car with the odometer showing 8 miles.  I pulled into our garage the last and final time with 132 miles on it, all accumulated driving to and from the dealership to have things fixed that should have worked at mile 9.

I am a lung transplantee.  During this episode, I noticed a few similarities between being listed for a lung and buying a new, in-demand car.  One, you must be approved.  Two, you must get on a waiting list.  Three, once you've been operated on, you have to recover.  Four, you have to control your own destiny, because nobody else will.

I found it interesting that nobody at the dealership could tell me Detail One about the security system--neither Sales nor Service.  When I asked, the answer was the same--read the book.  I am disabled and have been for 6 years, but prior to that, I was an award-winning systems engineer and sales representative for 150 software resellers dealers in Eastern Pennsylvania, and I have just experienced first-hand what I used to call "Product Pull".  That's when the product is so good that it sells itself.  Companies that make and sell such products generally hire knuckleheads--oops, I mean low-cost personnel--to sell them, and put the emphasis on units sold rather than customer service.  Product pull, by its very nature, creates abuse.  That's what's going on with Hondas and high-volume dealerships.

A few more details about the car (I know, finally!).  The driver seat has but one height adjustment, as opposed to the two on the Accord "loaner" they gave me.  And the seat cushion, as has been discussed elsewhere, is a little short, but livable.  The car is tight--it's quiet, takes bumps without a whimper, leans very little considering its higher-than normal center of gravity, and with the 5-speed is fun to drive and easy to shift.  It has better synchronizers than my '88 Acura Integra 5-door RS.  I was a little surprised to see that it uses 5-W-20 oil, but that may be normal these days.  I only use Castrol or Valvoline anyway, so don't expect a problem.

The 6-speaker, 120-watt sound system on the EX is more than acceptable, and having a tape player and 6-CD changer right in the dash is a major plus.  The moonroof is excellent, and were it not for the incomprehensible security system, it would be a near-perfect car in almost every respect.  We'll miss the 3.0 liter DOHC V-6 Maxima, but the 4-cylinder, 2.4 liter i-VTec engine in the CR-V is a marvel of quiet, efficient power and just enough motor for this type of vehicle.  The AC is excellent, and the fact that there are pollen filters in the system--hidden behind the glovebox--is good for allergy sufferers and lung transplantees alike.

It's really no different than dealing with a doctor--ask a lot of questions, believe nothing they tell you, and bet on talent.

Be a tissue and organ donor and inform your family of your decision.  Thanks for reading.

73, Roger WA3FLE
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<