DOC>
<DOCID> 7374 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2002_Subaru_Impreza </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_67270381188 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I never really thought of myself as a car person. I always drove old beaters with six figures on the odometer before I ever got my hands on them. When the last one went toes-up, I decided to get a new-new car. I test-drove the WRX (among other cars), and it just seized my imagination. Maybe I am a car person after all.

My car is a WRX wagon. Almost everything about how this car drives is startlingly good. 

Handling is very tight. The car has a narrow turning radius, tracks true through turns without pitching around. The AWD helps out (I think) on rough surfaces, so even though I live in the sun belt, it comes in handy, even on city streets. The car has very direct response to steering, and requires a bit more attentiveness than I'm accustomed to. The car seems to have a solidity and low center of gravity that, along with the AWD, is reassuring on rainy or icy streets--though it can still break loose and lose traction.

Ride is on the stiff side (which goes hand in hand with good handling), but not unpleasantly so, except on rough roads.

Braking is very good. You can check professional reviewers for skid-pad results, but my own subjective experience of panic stops on a steep downhill grade is impressive. ABS is standard. Whatever car you get, get anti-lock brakes. Even if they only kick in one time during your ownership of the car, they may pay for themselves that one time. They saved my bacon in one situation where the road was icier than I realized.

Power is, I suppose, what you'd expect from a hot little turbo engine. This engine is very weak at low revs, but starts to perk up in the 2000s, and the turbo comes on at 3500, at which point you really get pushed back into your seat. Solution? Keep the revs high. I'd be willing to trade a little peak performance for a little low-end torque, but I can live with this. The shifting and clutch action are not as smooth as they could be, but not necessarily objectionable. Don't even think of buying this car with an automatic transmission--I mean, yes, Subaru offers an automatic, it just would be Wrong.

Where the car really comes into its own is out on an open road. Driving over state roads, the car cruises up hills like they aren't there and carves through curves with no trouble. Any speed below 85 mph feels like a crawl. This could become a problem.

Because the weak low end almost requires the driver to repeatedly gun the engine in stop-and-go urban driving, in-town mileage takes a beating. In highway driving, though, mileage seems to be pretty constant regardless of speed or terrain, and is about what the EPA figures promise (possibly a bit better). This car is rated for 27 on the highway, and I think I exceed that on some road trips. In-town mileage is poor--I get 17-18 mpg, though I'm not driving very conservatively.

This is still a pretty new car for me, but as I understand it, Scoobies have a very good reputation for durability, which I find very comforting. It certainly feels tight and well constructed. I've noticed one rattle, from the glove compartment. Other than that, the car feels tight.

The interior is well laid-out. I prefer to have the steering wheel positioned low, which cuts off the top of the speedometer from my view. This is a minor gripe--everything else is pretty much where it belongs and is easy to manipulate. No special creature comforts, though even low-end cars have power-everything amenities these days, and the WRX is no exception. Some of the materials used in the interior, especially the cargo area surface, seem really cheap: this is one of my major gripes with the car. The seats and steering wheel are all good, though. Seats are comfortable, with height and seatback tilt adjustment, and tall bolsters to hold you in place on those sharp turns. Unfortunately (from my perspective) the interior comes in any color you want, so long as it's black. Living in Texas, I'd prefer a paler interior. Back seat comfort is pretty good--a 6'5" friend tells me he's comfortable in the back of a WRX. I haven't been spending a lot of time back there myself though. I have fit two full-grown adults and two kids in child seats, along with several suitcases (and myself, of course) in the car without anyone complaining of discomfort.

The cargo area with the back seats up (seats don't fold on the sedan, but there is a pass-through for skis; seats on the wagon have a 60/40 split) is big enough for everyday use; with the seats folded, I can just barely lay a mountain bike in the back without taking off either wheel. With seats folded, the floor is not perfectly flat. Considering that this is a compact car, it has plenty of room. Cabin noise is pretty quiet, but not the library hush of a Camry--then again, it's fun hearing the whine when the turbo comes online.

Appearance-wise, the WRX inspires strong reactions one way or the other. I think the car is kind of goofy-looking: I bought it in spite of the looks, not because of them. But that makes it easier to startle kids in Camaros.

In short, there's nothing subtle about this car: the love/hate styling, the firm ride, the sharp handling, and the crazy power. This car is a sleeper, a race-car in sedan (or wagon) clothing. If you want something fun--really fun--but also want practical seating and cargo, this car is a very good candidate. I also strongly believe that competence on the road--tight handling, ample power, strong brakes, and AWD--all make the car safer in dicey circumstances. I certainly feel safer driving it, knowing that I can probably get out of a bad situation--I just have to avoid getting myself into bad situations in the first place!
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<