DOC>
<DOCID> 7489 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2000_Dodge_Stratus_Sedan </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_95115906692 </URL>
<TEXT>
            It may be somewhat stereotypical, but I am a woman driver.  I don't know the horsepower or specifications of my car, but I'm the one who chose it, I take care of it, I drive it every day, and I put a lot of miles on it.  
When I first bought my car, I loved it.  So right off the bat- If you can find a really well maintained Stratus and plan on driving it for a few years before trading in or selling, I think you will have made a good choice.  However, be careful to check out the car, and drive it around before making that choice. My car is three years old, looks great, and checks out at a mechanic in perfect condition, but it certainly has many flaws.  From my experiences so far I don't expect the car to last as long as my previous ones, so if you want a long term commitment, I don't think this is the car for you.  
Let's get more specific...
Here's what I like about my car.  The Stratus is a good looking car.  It looks solid and comfortable, it looks like a high quality car.  Depending on the options it can look pretty sporty as well.  The fabric on the seats and the materials inside the car have weathered really well.  I have never had trouble cleaning the upholstery from dirt, food, or drink.  The dashboard has a good set-up and is easy to read any time of day or night.  All the controls are well organized and handy.  The stereo system is great, especially if you find a Status with the better stereo options.  The speaker placements make for good sound, and loud music for three years hasn't affected the speaker quality yet.  The car has super storage space, from compartments in the dash, to the consol, and especially the trunk.  The large size of the trunk, as well as the well designed shape of the lid make it easy to put very large or bulky items in the trunk, and make it easy to get a lot it, and get it out easily.  The fold down back seat only makes it better.  I have been able to get full sheets of plywood, and several pieces of furniture in this car on my own, and shut the trunk fully.  For travel or grocery shopping, this trunk is fabulous.  As far as speed and handling, the car is pretty good.  It is easy to steer, and can go pretty fast, but I don't think it is anything remarkable.  The car is nice and roomy.  We have had the backseat full of items and adults and never had anyone complain.  The front seat gives plenty of height and leg room for my family, all of which are over 6' 2".  
Now for what I don't like.  Over the course of the 3 years, I have taken this car in many times for the same issues. It seems like the mechanics have a really hard time figuring out what it wrong with it.  I have had fluid leaks, many brake problems, transmission problems, computer problems, and a huge array of squeaks, noises, and other annoying issues. Still, that was all under warranty and since it ran out a year ago, I haven't put a penny into it.  The gas gauge and fuel light don't notify until there is ONE gallon of gas left.  The car hasn't shifted smoothly in two years, and varies greatly by weather.  It is NOT a peppy car and is difficult to drive in city traffic.  The brakes are an awful ceramic disc, that squeals when wet- rain, snow, dew... The braking is not very smooth either.  The steering is a bit loose and doesn't make tight turns easily.  I have rattles in the front end, a squeak somewhere in the car, and other noises I can't even identify.  The lights in the stereo/climate control section have ceased to exist within the last year, which is very expensive to fix and makes driving at night difficult.  The cup holders are not shaped to hold most drinks, and the power jack for cell phones is in a place which makes hands-free set-ups hard to situate. 
Although the car has a lot of space, for older people the car is very hard to get in and out of.  Also, the shape of the seats causes pressure and my legs often fall asleep after long trips.  The large dashboard makes it difficult to see the front end, and reflects in the windshield.  The high rear end makes it impossible to see the back of the car. In good weather, the car is pleasant to drive.  However, in snowy or icy conditions it is not!  The traction is terrible, even with snow tires, and the back end slides and fishtails on turns and straight-aways.  The car often slips to the side when hitting anything.   
In the end, I guess your decision to buy this car is going to be strongly influenced by the type of driving and transporting that you do.  I don't think this car is high enough quality to be a well rounded good choice for everyone, and yet, I enjoy driving it and am not in a hurry to move on to another car.   
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<