DOC>
<DOCID> 855 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> Digital_Cameras/elec_Cameras-Digital_OlympusCC-Olympus__C-3000_Zoom </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_104841121412 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Itching to get rid of all those out of focus or wrongly framed wasted snaps? Now is the time, especially if you have a pc with a cd burner, to join the digital age. 

I bought the Olympus c3000 over a 18mths ago in Malaysia to replace a c830 I had lost and as it was around 150 pounds less than the price back home. This particular model was not available in the uk ( only the more expensive 3030 ). 

This camera is targeted toward the mid range market which covers from the semi and not so serious amateur ( like me )photographer who wants to take holiday/ special event photos or ones to add to their web site. 

Unlike Sony who have their Memory Stick and Nikon, Canon etc who use Compact Flash, Olympus uses &#147Smart Media&#148 for image storage. 

Usability 

The C3000 is a quite attractive digital camera. Auto mode is a doddle to use, just switch on, wait for the lens to come out ( please make sure the lens is off though, otherwise a horrendous noise follows) and point and shoot. Manual exposure is relatively easy.  There are options for low light shooting - exposure compensation settings, ISO settings, movies (up to 60 seconds depending on your memory card size) shutter delay, multi image, single shot, exposure bracketing, black and white,sepia, and negative. You can also have, fill in flash, red eye, and no flash which should just about cover all the shots you want to take. It certainly offers a good amount of manual overide (mess up) capability.  

The camera doesnt feel heavy and is a nice fit in the hands.   The handgrip and front mounted controls like zoom / landscape mode make the camera easy to use in point and shoot mode. But, changes from default settings become a little fiddly as you have to scroll through options on the rear LCD screen and this is slower than changing options on an SLR. You also have to take your eye away from the viewfinder to check the top information display panel or large LCD screen and sometimes to check or change the rear mounted controls down the right hand side)

If you dont use the LCD a lot - normally I would only use the display one time out of 10 - , the low power consumption rates make the batteries a few days of moderate filming. Start using the viewfinder a lot and they might not last a few hours.  I went to Angkor in April 2003 and took 160+ pictures and emptied 2 sets of batteries over 2 days. 

The viewfinder&#146 is good ( except of course in direct sunlight ) and images are nicely clear. There is a dioptric correction for those who wear eyeglasses, but, I have found that to be a bit of a waste, I am obviously too shortsighted - its all still a blur for me. The C3000&#146s shutter lag times are only sometimes a problem if you are trying to capture fast moving images or that sudden "oops" shot.

The imaging software included is easily installed onto Windows and is good for all very basic picture editing - red eye removal, cropping, resizing and so on. But bewarned, I cannot get it to load onto XP. I have found that buying a Media card reader is far easier and quicker (it just plugs into a USB port and no need for drivers) and I use Photoshop to edit the pictures.

Drawbacks
I do have a couple of complaints, one being the optical viewfinder. As with almost all digital cameras, you only see about 80 per cent of the picture area, so sometimes you wrongly frame a picture. This is no problem if you check the picture immediately and retake it or are happy to edit some of your pictures. 

Transferring the pictures from Camera to PC was sometimes a hit and miss affair as the camera wasnt recogised and I had to unplug and reconnect a couple of times.

Also, about 9 months ago the camera seized with the lens extended, on taking it to the dealer I was told as I had bought it outside the UK the warranty was not valid - despite the fact I had all the receipts etc. - which for a worldwide company like Olympus is disgraceful.  It was just inside the standard 12 month warranty.  I tried to complain to various people with no joy and I reluctantly agreed to pay. I saw why they were reluctant later - they said the main board had to be replaced at a cost of 170 pounds. At this price, it was just under the throw it away and buy a new one or pay it limit. Although the cost to buy a new one had dropped, I decided to shell out. This so far has been the only problem encountered. It would seem that when things do go wrong they will be expensive - probably like every other make. 

Technical Bits
The technical specs are as follows (you can snooze or skip this bit!)

It is a 3.34 megapixel camera with a 1.8&#148 tft color lcd screen on the rear.  It has a 3 times zoom with a further digital zoom capability of 2.5 times.  The lens apertures are f2.8-f11  with a shutter speed of  1 second to 1/800th of a second in auto exposure mode (16 seconds to 1/800th of a second in manual mode), ISO 100, 200, & 400, plus autozzzzzzzzzzzzzz.  oops sorry fell asleep there.  Movie capacity - 15 fps QuickTime Motion-JPEG movie clip - using the 16MB SmartMediaTM card, users can record up to 168 seconds in SQ mode (160 x 120 pixels), or up to 38 seconds in HQ mode (320 x 240 pixels).

It also came with a carrying case, an 8MB memory card and batteries.  It can shoot in different levels of quality -  from 640 x 480 up to 2,048 x 1,536 pixels which obviously changes the number of pictures you can store on one card.

Summary 
The quality of the images, and the performance of the camera is very good. Usability, I would rate a good. The Olympus C3000 was really good value since it is basically a slimmed down version of the Olympus C3030 and shares so many of the features of the more expensive model. Just beware of potential repair costs though. Just misses a 5.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<