DOC>
<DOCID> 8760 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Toyota_Echo </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_38402625156 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I recently got a job working for a rental car company.  The Toyota Echo is one the the cars that they have available for rent.  I do not have a lot of experience driving the car, but I do know a lot about the features, etc.  But in this case there is no features.  The cars can be purchased in a two door or a four door.  Other options are power locks, automatic or standard transmission, CD player.  However, the car that the company has has no features.

Since I have had to crawl in the back seat a lot to clean the car, I know that it is kinda hard to have to get into the back seat.  When trying to fold the front seats back to get into the back seat, the whole seat will push forward to give more room.  The back seat is enough room for three people, although I would not recommend traveling with this number of people.  The back seats also fold down to access the trunk.  I really like the upholstry (someone help me spell this word please, I can't find my dictionary) in this car.  Although it is not made with the most classy material, it still looks nice.  The interiors that I have seen in the cars that we have are light grey in some parts and a darker grey pattern on the edge of the seats.  The material that the seats are made with are very easy to clean and vacuum.  And since they are grey, they hardly show any stains.

I would recommend this car for people who have a lot of clutter in their car since there is about five cubbyholes.  The glove compartment is rather small, but there is another small area above it to compensate.  The spedometer, etc are all in a weird area in this car.  Instead of being right in front of the driver, it is right in the middle and tilted towards the drivers side.  It is made like this because the car is sold in Europe, Australia, etc (all of the countries that make cars with the drivers side on the right instead of the left as in North America).  With this design, when manufacturing, it is easy to switch the items on the driver's and the passenger's side, and tilt the middle section towards the other side.

The light on the ceiling of the car cannot be dimmed.  Instead there is a switch that lets you choose between the light being on, off, or just on when the doors are open.

In this car the overdrive can be turned on or off.  If it is on the car will be more fuel efficient, but it is good to turn it off when climbing steep mountains, or towing.  I can't picture this car towing much since it is so small and has almost no power.  The engine is a 4 cylinder or a 1.5 Litre.  The car seems to run well and it is a quiet ride.  It is one of the most fuel efficient cars that is being made today.  It gives an average of 34 miles per gallon in the city and 41 miles per gallon on the highway.

As for the outside of the car, besides it being ugly, it doesn't seem to be made very well.  Most of the cars that the company has are in poor condition even though they are only about six months old.  The have really large and visible stone chips on the hood.  This is normal wear and tear for all cars, but it shows a lot worse on this car than others.  The cars at the rental company are taken care of really well, but there is one that is starting to rust on the back of the trunk, and on all the doors on all the cars, the paint is starting to come off at the edge of the door.  These cars also seem to scratch and dent easily than others cars.

Overall, I would recommend this car.  But if you are thinking of buying it, make sure you take care of it really well, and don't park in places where you know it would get hit (such as by the door of another car in a parking lot).  It is good for students who want to purchase a new car since it is a good price, fuel efficient, and probably wouldn't be as expensive as other cars for insurance.


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<