DOC>
<DOCID> 8765 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Toyota_Echo </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_32527322756 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my first new car, a 2001 Toyota Echo, almost one month ago. I wanted to give my opinion right away, but thought I should drive it around a bit more so my love of having a new car wouldn't bias my thoughts. So here goes.

FIRST LOOK- EXTERIOR: I am a definite lover of all things small when it comes to cars. The more compact the better I say. Unfortunately, an accident a few months ago taught me that little cars crush easily. So I was in search of one that was small enough for me to love, but not so small as to crumple with the smallest accident. The Echo seemed to be just what I needed. 
Sure its a bit odd looking, but, come on, most cars these days blend in with one another. This baby definitely stands out. Easily found in a busy shopping mall parking lot, you know? The Echo is basically the same width and length as your average compact car, but unusually taller than its counterparts. This gives the interior an amazing amount of head room. But I'll get to that later on. If you're looking into buying an Echo than you should be familiar with the exterior looks. Its odd yet refreshing, and I think its wonderful. The end.

INTERIOR: I was shocked at the leg and head room available. Not an inch of space is wasted. The front seats are plenty big with a good amount of space between them. And talk about pockets a-plenty! One on each door, a large one (with room to store multiple CDs) on each side of the radio panel and a short wide one below the steering wheel. The two cup holders directly below the radio panel and one in the rear of the center column give even more storage space if you're not one to drink and drive. 
Same goes for the back seats. More than enough room for two and three can sit comfortably (and safely, since there are three rear seat belts as well as a center strap for child seats).
As you've probably heard, the dashboard set-up is a bit kooky. The speedometer/odometer panel is almost in the center of the dash, but skewed to be easily seem by the driver. And as you'll find out, it only takes about three trips around the block to get used to it. No problem there.

TEST DRIVE: As I said, I was shocked at the roominess of the interior. This caused a bit of a problem on my first drive. The domed roof and roomy width kept tricking my brain into thinking I was driving a caravan, causing my depth perception to go a bit wacky. But once you accept the fact that you're indeed in a compact car, things start to go easier.
I had a lovely drive around the town. The pickup was great, the brakes tough but not too sensitive and the engine was smooth and quiet. My only complain is turns. Fast ones to be specific. Watch yourself on any sharp highway exits or you'll be feeling like you might tip over. This would be the only down-side I can see about the height of the Echo. And I should point out that, obviously, you only feel like you're going to tip. I've yet to even come close to having my Echo capsize on me, the wheels don't even squeal when I'm going faster than I should be around those turns. But if you are easily unnerved I'd recommend going the speed limit.

I'm sure I've missed many things about the Echo that would cause you to enjoy it as much as I have - folding rear seats, HUGE trunk space (You can fit two people in there, I've done it), passenger seat belt alerts (no buzzing, thank goodness, only a blinking light), etc etc etc.
If you're considering an Echo for your next car, I highly recommend trying out the 2001 Toyota Echo. One month later and I have absolutely no complaints. And I have a feeling you'll feel the same way. Give it a shot.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<