DOC>
<DOCID> 9117 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1990_Chevrolet_Sportvan </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_76917673604 </URL>
<TEXT>
            For as long as I can remember I've named all our cars and trucks.  I get very attached to all of them even though I try not too.  This is the story of Wanda (The Incredible Hulk was her nick name)

My father decided that his van was getting too old to do any more shows.  He is an antique dealer and travels about 30000 miles per year.  The minivan we had was still running strong, but my dad wanted to replace it before it started to lose power.  Plus he wanted something with a little more room inside.  So we started to watch the ads.

Days later he suddenly said, "Get your coat, we are going to go look at a van."  He called the number and found out we couldn't tonight, but first thing in the morning.  

The next morning we went to the owners house and picked him up.  The van was parked at his restaurant.  From a distance the van was very nice looking.  Grey with white two-toning. But up close it had it's blemishes.  

It had small bits of rust here and there.  the grill was cracked, but unoticeably.  The A/C didn't work and the roof was dented (a tree limb fell on it the year before).
But the most noticeable thing was the sliding door.  It was missing pieces of trim.  There was large pieces of rust where it had been.  It wouldn't run smoothly on the track and would fall slightly.  

But even with 222000 miles it ran like new, had a 350 V8 and more room than we could ever need.  We new it could handle anything my dad would do, because it was the 1-ton full size G-30 van.  It ran perfectly and drove very nice down the road, so we bought it even with it's visual problems.  It was only $1000.  It's hard to find these vans cheap.

So my dad tooled around in it for the first month before using it for his antiques.  He was so suprised in how it was still so solid feeling.  It had been used as a transport shuttle for a near by casino.  The frequent use of the sliding door had resulted in it getting trashed.  

The van's front seats were very comforatable with ample foot room.  But the rear seats were cramped, uncomforatable, and way to stiff for distance traveling.
Also for being a top of the line vehicle the van didn't have very many options.  It had power windows/locks, tilt, cruise, cassette, tinted windows, two-toning, towing package and that was about it. 

We drove it for everything.  It hauled siding, firewood, furniture, friends, family, camping, a field mower which dad cut down our fields by pulling it with the van.  We even used it as scaffolding to paint our small grocery store.

Slowly the van began to show it's age.  The sliding door was now amost completely rusted out.  The drivers door catch was rusting, it would need to be soon welded.
My dad dented the roof much worse using it for scaffolding.
Small dents were showing up from the parking lot.  More rust was forming. The heater started to be temperamental

A year and a half later we had put trouble free 30000 miles on it.  All through this time my dad had been hunting for another sliding door.  He said that if he found one he would replace it and have the van repainted.  It was still with quite a bit of money.

My dad's shows are 7 hours away every month.  A hour into his next show the van suddenly blew a ring.  My dad decided to head on and went through 14 quarts of oil to get there.  On the way back the ring sealed back partialy and he only went through 2 quarts.  

My dad decided that he couldn't afford the van he wanted so he had the fixed but they did a bad job.  The ring blew again next month going to a show and this time on the way home threw a rod.  He decided it was best not to fix it this time.

My dad parked it and got another minivan, but this one was extended and had All-Wheel-Drive.  He used the big van for odd jobs close to home and even with the knocking, never did quit running.  

When my dad had a new roof put on the store he made a deal with a friend who owned a junkyard.  He could have the van for free if my dad could load it with old shingles.  He would then save a grand on a dumpster.  The friend agreed and I loaded it with boxes of shingles and drove it to the junkyard. 

I felt sorry for her.  She had a hard life and gave such loyal service, even after she had broken.  For the first time she strained with the weight of her load and noisily headed down the road.  As I pulled her into the field and into her final resting spot she stalled.  I turned the motor over and she roared to life imediately.  Satisfied I turned her off and got into the car with my dad and we went home.  

I wish now that we hadnt' just parked her with the shingles.  We could have had her proffessionaly fixed and it would have been worth it.  It still books at about $1000 in the condition it is in right now.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<