DOC>
<DOCID> 14083 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1994_Ford_Mustang </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_57146314372 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I'd like to delve right into one of the cons first.  I've read a lot of reviews and some say this car handles good in rain.  Hmmm.    I'm 37 years old and have owned a lot of cars in my life.  None I've ever owned handle worse in rain than a Mustang.  I've never tried to drive one in snow, that's a scary thought.  I've only had one accident in my life, and it was an '89 Mustang, and I totalled it when I lost traction on a wet road, and went off the road.  That was 4 years ago and I swore I would never buy another Mustang again, it lost traction way too easily.  That was the only time I've ever rode in the back of an ambulance and I blamed the car.

However, I've still admired Mustangs because of their great looks, esp. the '94 to current models.  Not long ago I was car shopping (definitely not looking for a Mustang), looking for the best deal I could find on a car.  There it was in a classified ad for $3500 US.  The price really caught my eye as I hadn't seen a '94 or newer Mustang for under $5000, so I had to go see it, thinking something major must be wrong with it.  I knew as soon as I pulled into their driveway that this was my car, it was very sharp.  A short drive was all it took, it ran and handled as good as it looked.  It's a '94 H/T with V6 and 5 speed.  Teal color with gray/black interior, power everything, sunroof, air, etc.

I really loved the car until I got it out in the rain.  While this car handles great on dry roads, it doesn't like rain.  A couple weeks ago I was driving to work, making a right turn on a steep hill.  I got turned, but then the tires started to spin and wouldn't grab for anything.  I had to back down the hill!  I know somebody's probably gonna say I don't know how to drive, but I've driven that same road to work everyday for the past 8 years, with numerous different cars.  I've never had this happen, not even on snow, not even in the '89 Mustang that I had.  It seems every time I try to take off from a stoplight in the rain, the tires want to spin, even on level ground.  The tires still have lots of tread on them.  I'm gonna replace them anyway, I'm not convinced that's gonna help.  Friends have told me to put weight in the trunk, but that's ridiculous and shouldn't be necessary, I'm not driving around with bags of sand rolling around in the trunk.  This is my biggest complaint about the car, I was hoping it would do better in rain.  It's not real bad on the highway in the rain, but I live in an area with a lot of hilly, bumpy country roads, it doesn't like these road conditions in the rain, but hugs these roads very admirably in good weather.

Now for some pros.  Affordability.  No chance of finding a comparably equipped Camaro or Firebird for $3200, and I think the Mustang is a much better looking car.   As I've seen in so many other reviews, the interior is very comfortable and has probably spoiled me for life, a huge improvement over the '89 Mustang.  The power seats are great, I've got it adjusted in a way that I'm more comfortable than in any car I've ever owned.  It's very much fun to drive in good weather.  Body styling is very sporty, absolutely beautiful car.  Mine doesn't have a spoiler though which would make it look even better.

I've seen in other reviews about a noisy ride.  This is actually the quietest ride I've ever owned.  You put the windows up and you don't hear much of anything, barely even hear the motor.  Very few rattles and squeaks for an 8 year old car.  It's no Lexus, but then again it doesn't have a price tag like a Lexus either.  Most 8 year old cars (esp. ones with 107K miles) have more rattles and squeaks than this.  

I wanna say a few more cons here, but keep in mind, I love this car and these are just things that I think could be improved on.  

Gas mileage.  Whether I drive city or highway, my gas mileage is 17-19 MPG. I don't know how some people are getting 27 MPG on the highway.  Not happening with my car, and I have not driven it fast, except for a couple times the day I bought it just to see what it would do (not bad when you take it all the way to the floor and drop the clutch).  When my trip odometer gets to 250 miles (city or highway), gas guage is firmly on E, needing 14+ gallons to fill.  My previous car, a '91 Dodge Daytona ES (also a V6 - 5 speed) got better gas mileage (20-27 MPG), had a sportier motor tone, and ran circles around this Mustang in terms of performance.  For the gas mileage this Mustang gets, I would expect it to run stronger.  The Daytona got better gas mileage even when I ran it hard.  Not knocking the performance of the V6 Mustang, just the gas mileage.  It runs like a V6, but uses gas like a V8.

My Mustang has all power options, all work except for some of the variable wiper speeds, only a couple of them work.  It has the factory CD/Cassette stereo, which sounds pretty good but the CD player doesn't always work.  If you put a CD in and the CD player decides to mess up, it won't eject the CD, and you can't even listen to a tape or the radio until the CD player decides to work again so you can get your CD back out.  Should have put an on/off switch on the CD player, so when this happens at least you could turn it off without having to turn the whole stereo off.  Not fun driving with no music.

But for $3200, these problems are not a big deal.  If I'd have paid more for the car, I wouldn't be too happy though.  
I just wish it would handle better in the rain, as this is my only car.  I can't afford to buy a 2nd car, so I have to decide whether to keep it and risk disaster in the rain (I'm scared to death of it in the rain), or sell it and buy something that I can drive anytime.  This decision would be easy but the car is so beautiful that I find it very hard to part with.  I've owned many many cars and I've never been scared to drive in the rain until now.  In fact I've never been afraid of snow either.  Since I live in an area where we usually get a lot of snow in the winter (none this year though), by next winter I'll probably have to get rid of this car, assuming I haven't wrecked it in the rain before then. For a car that hugs the road so well on dry road, I can't believe how bad it is on wet roads.  It's like 2 completely different cars - a dream car and a nightmare car.

Mechanically, I've had zero problems with this car.  I've seen others say bad things about automatic transmissions.  It's kind of funny because I feel the same way about automatic trans in any car (any make or model).   I always buy a stick, I hate AT's, and I'm not just talking about Mustangs or Fords.  I've owned only 3 cars with automatic trans, all 3 went out, costing big bucks to fix.  I've had probably 20 cars with manual trans, I've never had a manual trans go out, nor have I ever had to replace a clutch, including some cars with as many as 170K miles on them.  If you're looking for better reliability and performance, I would strongly recommend buying one with a 5 speed.  If not abused, it will last virtually forever.  Mine has 107K miles, original clutch, no bad synchronizers (no gears grind), and the linkage is still very tight.  Not many automatic transmissions will make it to 107K miles without needing rebuilt, probably twice.

In summary, I'd recommend this car to anyone for driving on a nice day.  But I can't recommend driving it in any kind of adverse weather conditions, unless it's strictly on the highway.  I'd recommend having a 2nd car to drive when the weather is bad.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<