DOC>
<DOCID> 17525 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2003_Ford_Focus_Sedan </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_88865279620 </URL>
<TEXT>
            Personal Testimonial:

My husband and I needed to lease a vehicle.  Luckily, I work in a Ford dealership part time and was able to purchase a car on the dealership plan. Anyway, my husband and I looked at several different models and discovered that the most affordable model would be a Ford Focus Sedan.  We wanted a sedan because we needed 4 doors and a larger automobile because we are a couple with a child and could have other kids in the future.  We liked the Focus.  It drove well and looked very roomy and attractive.  It is extremely comfortable and rides well.  Provides a surprising amount of pep for a 4 cylinder.  The car heats up within about 5 minutes.  The defrost is within about 1 - 2 minutes depending on frost.  If the windows are fogged up, they clear in about 5 seconds.  The stereo is great.  Wonderful crisp clear sound.  The speakers all sound wonderful.  Car handles well.  

Outward Body:
The Ford Focus Sedan has a aero-dynamic style and a very attractive body.  The headlights and taillights have a very unique design.  Kind of rounded off at the bottom edges and flared up slightly on the corners facing the outward body of the car.  There is a standard break light on the rear dash, but no back wiper, like the hatchback and wagon.  Some of the other options that the focus sedan offers are rear spoiler and moonroof.  We didn't choose either of those options.  We didn't feel we needed to spend the extra money, no other reason.  The under carriage of the car comes with splash guards under the front and rear bumper.  All of the focus' come with about 8 exterior colors.  A metallic black, a very attractive white, silver, yellow (which we didn't really care for), metallic gold, metallic grey, beige and the other color escapes me.  We chose metallic grey.  We really love the color, it's very attractive and rich looking.

Interior:
The interior colors offer a cloth in grey and beige.  We chose the grey.  Really stylish with a two-tone look.  The inter portion of the cloth offers a slight mesh pattern and a lighter grey outer trim.  The beige offers the same style.  The cloth interior offers a nice leather/vinyl combination on the steering wheel.  Also the vinyl continues throughout the rest of the dash and side panels of the interior panels of the doors.

There is also a center console which offers a storage compartment inside.  Small, but still useful.  The console is also coated with the same vinyl.  The rear dash is coated with the same cloth that covers the trim of the seats.  The ceiling of the car is also covered with the same material.  The dashboard is long and sleek, sporting two front airbags.  

The dashboard has both digital and manual controls.  The odometer is digital and the speedometer is manual.  The odometer has a push buttom reset.  There are all of the usual warning lights.  Gas, oil, engine, also a ABS brake light, emergency brake, airbag light and also a warning light for an open door.  One really interesting feature that this and all of the Ford cars offer is a computerized key and there is a small blinking light in the middle of the dashboard that blinks until the car is started to signify that it is being started by the proper key.  The car will not start with a non-computerized key or replica of any other kind.  There is a small triangular button in the center of the dashboard next to the blinking light that turns the hazard lights on.  

Now, lets talk stereo.  Our particular car came with a really nice stereo with a CD player, CD changer and MP3 player capability.  There are also very cool options and presets for volume treble, bass, etc.  You can set a certain variety of settings and when someone else other than you drives the car they can lower the volume, change the bass or treble and then when you start your car up again, your settings automatically come back on.  There are about 16 programable stations.  AM/FM.  The stereo is completely digital.  Very modern looking display, which not only shows you the station numbers but also the call letters.  There are 8 buttons, 4 along each side that let you quickly change the station to your presets.  Then there is a toggle button that switches from FM1 your first 8 present to FM2 your last 8 presents.  16 total.  The speakers provide a rich sound.  There are two speakers in the front dash on either side and two speakers on the rear dash centered.  

There is a dome light placed above the front of the interior of the car placed in the center.  There are also two reading lamps on either side of the dome for private use.  

The wipers are located on the right hand side of the steering wheel.  There are 3 speeds, low, med, high and 4 delay settings.  To access the wiper fluid you simply tap the end of the wiper lever.  

On the left hand side of the steering wheel is the turn signal lever and you can pull that lever forward to access the brights and push forward to blink the brights.  There is a small dial to the left of the steering wheel in the middle that controls the lights.  The lights are completely manual with no day time running lights.  Turn the dial all the way to the left to turn the dome light on and all the way to the right to turn the head lights on.  

The emergency brake is placed on the floor of the vehile on the driver side left.  The brake and gas pedal are comfortably placed within reach.  

The seats are fully manually adjustable.  Back and front tilt, forward and backward movement.  The headrests are fully adjustable.  T

he model comes standard with power windows and locks.  There is also a feature which allows the driver to enable a security feature on the rear windows for child safety.  The windows are never permanently locked closed, but they do not go more than a quarter of the way down when the safety feature is enabled.  T

he car comes with manual and automatic transmission.  We chose automatic.  The automatic offers a 4 cylinder engine with a decent amount of pep and horsepower.  The center gear shift has a small button on the side which enables the driver to switch the over-drive on and off.  

The heat and air conditioning unit is located directly below the stereo.  It offers about 10 different temperature controls for comfort.  It also offers a standard flow control for the amount of heat/air you want to come through.  The venting offers a front and front window defrost combination, a front vent, front vent/defrost combination, vent/floor combination, floor,  floor/defrost combination.  The car also offers a button placed right within the heating controls for the rear defrost.  There is a light that stays on while the defrost is enabled.  The defrost lasts for approximately 15 minutes.  There are two vents on either side of the driver and passenger seats.  The air conditioner comes with a floor and vent exchange dial.  There is a button that you need to push to access the A/C.  I would assume that all of the controls work along with the A/C as well as the heat.   

The doors have side pockets for storage and there are large storage pockets on the back of the driver and front passenger seats.  

The rear seats pull down for extra storage.  The trunk is large and can hold a fair amount of groceries and other shopping bags.  The rear and front seatbelts are adjustable and very comfortable.  Not binding but are very secure and strong.  The car came standard with cloth front and rear floor mats.

Price and warranty:
Very affordable.  The sticker price was 16,500.  Our price was 15,200 with our discount.  We opted to lease.  We pay just under $200.00 a month with the Ford Credit lease.  We had to put down the first months payment and sales taxes and title.  The warranty is very good bumper to bumper power train.  I would go into more detail about the lease, but I wouldn't want to go off topic.  Perhaps I'll post a review for Ford Credit and discuss it then.  All in all the lease was a reasonable one.  And the warranty has everything we needed.  3 Year 36,000 mile.

Service:
I don't want to sound like I'm picking favorites, but the particular dealership that I work parttime at is a wonderful one.  Family owned and operated and they take great pride in their staff and choosing the right people to service their customers.  Sorry for going off the topic of the car.  If you want to know which dealership and you live in the Metro Detroit area, let me know.  :)

Overall:  
Attractive car, rides smooth as silk, great stereo, comfortable interior, great colors to choose from.  Very affordable.  Awesome standard and additional options to choose from. 
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<