DOC>
<DOCID> 18448 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1997_Ford_Ranger </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_9221017220 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought this truck new in 1996 because I wanted an inexpensive truck with basic features.  My vehicle has a V-6 engine, extended cab, automatic transmission, and is not a 4X4.  My truck now has about 73,000 miles and I am still pleased with it.

One feature I really like about the truck is the fact that it is very basic.  My model doesn't have power windows or locks--two less things to worry about repairing.  Also, the floor of the interior is covered with a plastic material rather than carpeting.  I don't have to worry about stains from spills or snow in the winter.  

Another thing I like about the truck is the extended cab.  I would definitely recommend this for most anyone buying a truck.  The extra room in the cab is very useful, especially on long trips.  We can put the majority of our luggage in the extended cab and be able to access it throughout the trip without stopping.  This feature is also helpful when it is raining or snowing, especially if you do not have any kind of bed cover.  My cab also has two jump seats that fold out and can carry two additional passengers.  Although the seats are not comfortable for long trips, the jump seats are useful if you need to carry unexpected passengers.  They have seatbelts, but I am unsure how safe they would be for children.  

I also like the fact that Rangers are not as low to the ground as some other compact pickup trucks (i.e., Chevrolet and GMC).  Also, the bed is nice-sized--about the right size for most anything you would want to haul.  I have hauled a lot of furniture and some appliances in the truck and, although sometimes it requires a little creativity, you can get almost anything to fit.  In addition, the truck's controls and knobs on the dash are easy to reach and operate.  The radio has a good sound and the truck has a lot of cigarette lighter outlets for CD players and other equipment.

This truck has also been reliable for me.  Although I have only had it a little over four years, it does have about 73,000 miles on it.  I have been in an accident in the truck and it sustained some minor damage.  I had to have an engine mount replaced after that accident, but other than that the only things I have had to have done to the truck were general maintenance things.  

Although I believe that the truck's advantages outweigh its disadvantages, the truck does still have some disadvantages.  One disadvantage is the placement of the air filter.  It is placed in such a remote location that I have had to have the air filter changed by a mechanic.  Also, my truck has 14-inch rims because they were cheaper.  However, it is difficult to find truck tires for 14-inch rims.  In addition, since the truck is a 3.0 V-6 automatic, the gas mileage is not as good as it could be with a manual transmission and four-cylinder engine, but this is true for any vehicle.  Also, although I don't notice this, my wife complains that the truck has slower acceleration than many of the cars she has driven.  Lastly, as with any truck, the non-4x4 version of the truck is difficult to drive in the winter without weight in the back.  I usually put about three or four 40 pound bags of salt in the back and don't have a problem.  However, if you are caught in a sudden snowfall without weight in the bed, driving can be somewhat dangerous.

Overall, this truck has been a good truck and I plan to keep it for a very long time.  If I am ever in the market for another truck again, I will definitely consider another Ranger.  This time, though, I would get one with 15 inch rims and probably a manual transmission (for better gas mileage).

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  4.0

</DOC>
<