DOC>
<DOCID> 19516 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-2001_Ford_Mustang </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_24239181444 </URL>
<TEXT>
            . . . which is what I told people at work when they saw it and said I was overpaid.  I'm 22 and female and I'm but a simple railroad clerk.  I don't get paid very much.  This car is killing me in terms of insurance and payments.  Is it worth it?  . . . I only had it a week so I dunno yet :)

I was very, very happy with my 1995 Ford Thunderbird (I even wrote an epinion on it).  Comfy seats, climate control, all the options (well the ones that matter anyway); it was a VERY pretty shade of blue (Midnight Blue Clearcoat Metallic); I put a great stereo in it (all Kenwood components except for the amp and the subwoofers, which were Kicker and JL Audio, respectively) and I had a Viper alarm with remote start (which, although it was great in the wintertime, was more of a show-off thing than anything).  There was just one thing.  My T-Bird was an automatic, and I am sick to death of cars with automatic transmission.  UGH!!!  I think it's BORING to drive a car with an auto trans, and not only that, but I don't want to step on the gas and wait for the car to decide what it wants to do.  So, I decided to look for a new car.  I was thinking Volkswagen, actually.  I really liked the new GTI, and I was even thinking of getting a Beetle (neat little cars, but honestly, they're just too cutesy for me).  What drew me to the Mustang however was that it looks COOL and it has some things in common with the Thunderbird.  The interior of the Mustang is a little reminiscent of the T-Bird . . . just a LITTLE now mind you . . . and the seats, while I've heard nothing but horror stories about them, well, they're not nearly as uncomfortable as I expected them to be.  Need I mention I drove that T-Bird for over two years?  You think that after a car with seats like that, I'd have no trouble spotting uncomfortable seats, but this car has been good to my back and tushy so far and in a week I've put over 500 miles on it.  (Ugh!!!)  As for the back seat . . . well, its a Mustang, what do you expect?  I'm single and I have a virtually nonexistent social life, so it's not like I'm gonna be jamming kids or friends in the back, so what the hey :)  

The Mustang also won big points for me because it's rear-wheel drive.  Ever since I owned the Thunderbird I don't like the way front-wheel drive cars handle anymore, it just doesn't feel right.  Sure rear wheel drive sucks in the winter, but all I had to do with the T-Bird was throw studded snow tires on the back and I didn't have any problems . . . I was flying through unplowed parking lots just as well as any dude in a Subaru:)  I've heard people say they wished the Mustang was front-wheel drive, but I think that's crazy, I don't think it would be a Mustang anymore if that were the case.

The trunk however leaves a lot to be desired.  Stupid me thinks, "aww, it can't be THAT different from the Thunderbird . . ." heh, yeah right.  In the T-Bird I could have easily fit three people in my trunk.  I had a box with two 12" JL Audio subwoofers in the back, and I could also get my spare out no problem, AND I had a cd changer, AND I could also fit two weeks' worth of groceries in the back for me AND my friend Dave.  This Mustang . . . HAHAHAHAHAHA!!!  I figured I could at least fit my subs in the back no problem, I don't use the trunk that much so if they take up the entire trunk, no sweat, right?  Heh.  I can't even FIT the box in the trunk.  Lengthwise I don't think it'd be a problem, but it just won't fit in there at ALL.  I have to specially order a box, which kinda sucks, but, hey.  The model I got has the Mach 460 stereo, which is pretty loud, and definitely sounds surprisingly good for a factory stereo.  Having a 6-disc changer in the dash doesn't hurt, either :) but for all this stereo is supposed to do, it's not THAT impressive.  I noticed though that the radio sounds more bass-y than the CD player does, which should hopefully be rectified by the time I get my subs installed.  Although I was sitting in the car tonight and listening to a CD and I was surprised by how powerful the low-end was . . . but overall, I'm not all too impressed by the low-end of the stereo, then again, look at what I'm comparing it to, silly me.

As far as driving it . . . well, I can't say much for its power, because I got the 5-speed model and it's the first stick shift I've ever owned and I'm still getting used to it.  It sure is fun to drive though :) and a lot more forgiving than my dad's '92 Toyota pickup as far as shifting gears goes, I can say that much.  I can't understand why ANYONE would buy a Mustang with an automatic transmission.  Having a T-Bird with an auto trans is one thing, since in the late '90s it was more or less a luxury car (especially since they stopped making the SC), but the Mustang is a sports car, and I don't think there's anything sporty about an automatic transmission unless you've got a big ole boat with a big ole V8 in it like a 1987 Monte Carlo SS.  I was rather frustrated when I went shopping for Mustangs and I must have looked at fifteen of them, and they all had automatic transmission.  So when I found this car, I had no choice but to jump on it, since in the Albany area new Mustangs with 5-speeds seem to be rare (and I didn't feel like messing around and ordering one).  I didn't really want the Mach 460 stereo, since I was just planning on taking the one I had from the Thunderbird with me, but what the hey.  I just NEED to have my subwoofers installed.  Those of you with boomin' systems will understand.  Once you've had it you can't go without.  I have to let out the clutch a lot slower than what I'd like, since I figure if it's a Mustang I oughta be shifting like a madman and driving 80mph through residential areas like a maniac, but I have to take my sweet time shifting and everything.  I assume it'll come easier once I get used to it.  Overall though I like it, and it certainly doesn't hurt that it's got the same size engine the Thunderbird had (3.8L V6) but 50 more horsepower (190hp as opposed to 140hp).  People keep asking me if I got the V8, but I don't see much point.  Sure it'd be nice, but it's $5,000 more that I can't afford to spend, and I'm ALREADY getting killed on insurance as it is, ugh.  Gas mileage doesn't seem to be TOO bad, but since this car only has a 15.7 gallon tank (instead of 18 gallons like I'm used to) it seems like I'm wasting a lot more gas.  Maybe that's just because I suck at driving stick, though :)

As far as looks . . . well, wow.  It is a pretty car.  I catch myself going into my garage and staring at it all the time.  I refuse to take it through an automatic car wash . . . I tried washing it by hand last week, and that went fine, but then I tried waxing it with this cheezy liquid Turtle Wax and . . . ugh.  Of course I caught the ninth degree about it at work, but what can I do?  It's been raining here like mad lately, I was lucky I had time to wash and wax it in the first place.  Oh, well.  There's always next week.  But like I said, if you want people to just leave you alone, this isn't the car for you.  Overall, I still like it and everything, but people are always looking at it and telling me "Gee, that's a pretty car" or asking me for the keys or telling me how spoiled I am (yeah right, I have to starve myself to afford this car because I can't spend any money on food anymore, hehehe . . .)  You will see old ladies looking at it when they walk past it on the street.  You will want an alarm for it because you will not trust anyone.  I know I don't.  As for the interior, I like it for the most part.  It seems a little cheap, but I like the way it looks.  The back is a little higher than I'm used to; I have to sit up and crane my neck when I look behind me to merge into another lane or something.  But oh well, can't have everything and overall I'm very pleased with this car.  I figured I could never find another car that I liked as much as the Thunderbird, but this Mustang is giving me some doubts on that.

So if you want a car that looks very pretty and will kick some butt on the highway, as well as earn you a ton of attention, then by all means go for it, but make sure you got a spotless driving record or you can afford the insurance.  I have two failure to obey traffic device violations on my license from 1998 and two seatbelt tickets, one in 1998 and one in 2000.  I also have one accident, which resulted in $2,500 damage to my Thunderbird (I needed a new hood, ugh), but the way I was treated when I tried to insure this monster, you'd think I have several DWI's, speeding tickets, and accidents which resulted in injuries and death.  I hate New York.  

I like my car.  I hope it likes me too for the next five years (the duration of my loan).  I'm glad I got the five-speed because in addition to being more fun to drive, I also feel more comfortable owning a car with a stick, it seems like one less thing that can go wrong.  Sure I'll have to replace the clutch, but that's minor.  I had a transmission fall out of my car once, and ever since then, I don't really trust automatics.  

My social life has been really lacking lately . . . Maybe I can use my car to pick up guys or something.  However, for me, it might backfire, because like I said, the car screams "I live with my father".


            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<