DOC>
<DOCID> 24025 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1997_Ford_Expedition </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_103686835844 </URL>
<TEXT>
            <b>Overall Impressions</b>

We bought our 1997 Expedition in '98 from a "road warrior" friend of ours who put 40K miles on it in 15 months. After 4 more years of low mileage use (we're only up to 67K miles in 6/03) we remain very pleased with this vehicle. After owning a lengthy string of GMC trucks and SUVs, this Ford has won me over.

The ride quality far exceeds that of the '97 Chevy Tahoe and the Expedition has substantially more room behind the middle row of seats than the GM equivalents. Despite this being the first year the Expedition was manufactured, the drive train is reliable and the vehicle has required very little repair other than normal maintenance and wear item replacement.

<b>Features and Systems</b>

First, it's almost hard to call the Expedition a truck. The interior is luxuriously appointed and nicer than many cars, although it ought to be for the price and profit margin Ford tacks on to it. The Eddie Bauer edition is fully equipped with most every imaginable power and convenience accessory including windows (6), seats (front) and cruise control.

Our vehicle has the larger, 5.4L Triton V-8, which provides good power for towing a 2500# boat trailer occasionally, as well as for daily driving. The final drive ratio is optimized for improved (LOL) gas mileage and, as a result, acceleration is merely adequate. It won't snap your head back by any means. A 30 gallon fuel tank gives good range on the highway, but runs up big numbers at the pump when you fill up.

The 4 speed automatic transmission works well and is generally smooth shifting, but will sometimes resist up-shifting under hard acceleration. Since this quirk occurs very infrequently and is easily overcome by throttling back on the accelerator pedal for a moment, we haven't bothered to try and "fix" it. 

The 4WD system has automatically locking front wheel hubs and an "all-time 4WD" setting (in addition to 2WD high range, 4WD high and low ranges) that automatically engages 4WD when needed in snowy conditions. The 4WD transfer case is electrically shifted, with a rotary control switch on the dash. There is no PTO provision in the transfer case. The 4WD system works well and has proven itself in up to 12" snow conditions. Like most SUV owners, we rarely drive the vehicle off road, but it is capable of doing so. The ride quality off-road is obviously less sanguine and this is not a Hummer, so I wouldn't recommend running the "Baja" with a stock 4WD Expedition.

Like a number of vehicles of this genre, the braking system is adequate, but not extremely powerful. Many manufacturers appear to try to "optimize" brake size to mitigate cost, which results in only middling brake performance and more frequent brake pad replacement than I think should be necessary. We'll probably have to put the 2nd set of new front disk brake pads on the Expedition within the next 5 - 7,000 miles. That said, the Expedition's brakes are far better than the 1995 GMC Jimmy we owned, which ate a set of front disk brake pads every 15 - 17K miles and always left you wondering whether or not you were going to stop in time. 

Steering and handling are acceptable and what you should expect for a vehicle of this size, this is not a sports car.

This vehicle is equipped with air suspension on the rear axle, with an on-board compressor and an automatic leveling system. This provides a very smooth highway ride that is neither excessively firm or mushy and results in minimal body roll when cornering for a vehicle of this size and height. Nice feature.

The vehicle is extraordinarily roomy and comfortable, with leather seating surfaces throughout and inboard armrests for the driver and front passenger bucket seats, which also include adjustable lumbar support and seat back recliners. Leg, head, shoulder and hip room are excellent in front, very good in the middle row bench seat and acceptable for kids or one adult comfortably in the smaller 3rd row bench seat. Storage with the 3rd seat in place is only modest, but acceptable. This is, after all, the slightly shorter Expedition, not an ultra-huge Suburban or Excursion.

Wide running boards and logically placed handrails inside the door frames assist shorter adults and kids in overcoming the vehicle's relatively high ground clearance. Entry and exit, therefore, are easy.

The middle row of seats folds down easily for extra cargo capacity, but although the 3rd seat is easily released from it's mount, it's bulky, heavy and awkward to remove and store. 

The dash board instruments (complete with tach and full gauge complement) and controls are logical, well laid out and easy to use. A powerful and efficient heater and A/C system compensates for the large interior volume and greenhouse of glass. Rear controls for the heat/AC system let passengers determine their own comfort levels.

The premium sound system, with a 6-CD changer located in the front center console, is easy to use and sounds great. There are separate audio controls and headset jacks on the back of the front console for the kids. Three cigarette lighter style power ports (2 front, 1 rear) provide current for accessories such as a cell phone charger, laptop or radar detector.

There's plenty of gadget, CD and map storage in the glove box, large center console, overhead console and map pockets in the front doors and on the sides of the center console. The front seat backs have large mesh storage pockets as well. There are cup holders galore (at least 6 that I can recall). The interior from front to rear and running boards are well lit and the map lights are effective.

As mentioned previously, the Expedition has proven above average in reliability, requiring only routine maintenance, which we perform in accordance with Ford's recommended schedule, or more frequently, since I'm a stickler for preventive maintenance. Front brakes last about 25K miles and the first set of Goodyear Wrangler RT/S tires ran up 64K miles before needing replacement.

The only unusual repair expense we experienced was due to the premature failure of the air compressor for the rear air suspension a couple of years back. This was a rather expensive $600 job. Other than that, the vehicle just hums right along.

<b>Conclusions</b>

The Expedition is a great vehicle for campers, occasional trailer towing, parents with scads of kids and their gear to haul or anyone who wants a good balance between a large passenger and/or enclosed cargo hauling capability, along with 4WD for the snow or light off-road driving. We obviously don't put a lot of mileage on ours, so the gasoline cost is bearable. But if you put on a lot of miles, this will be an expensive ride for you. Expect about 10-12 MPG in short hops around town and perhaps 16 MPG on the highway @ 70 MPH, so it's never met a gas station it didn't love. If you're looking for high mileage, you're not looking for an SUV anyway.
            
<label> Yes
<rating>  5.0

</DOC>
<