DOC>
<DOCID> 27493 </DOCID>
<PRODUCT> auto_Make/auto_Make-1995_Ford_Probe </PRODUCT>
<URL> http://www.epinions.com/content_81240690308 </URL>
<TEXT>
            I bought my 95 Probe about a year ago and put 13,000 miles on it. It has been a very fun car to drive, but I must get rid of it. The transmission is going bad, which is all-too-common for Ford products. I gave Ford one last chance with the Probe, partly because it was mechanically a Mazda, but apparently the oval nameplate taints everything it touches in some way. Despite the car being very nice overall, I can't get past the well-documented, just plain bad reputation of the CD4E transmission. I should have done my research before buying it.

My advice to someone interested in a Ford Probe: If you want one, I STRONGLY suggest getting one with a manual transmission. A Probe with a manual is indeed a GOOD car. You probably won't regret having bought one. But when it comes to  the Base, SE or GT models both the CD4E and the 4EAT transmissions have bad reputations.

The text below is from my original review. Many of the positive things still apply... but it's not enough to keep me in a Ford.

---------------------------------

The paint color is the most unique among the 16 vehicles I've owned in my life. It's a really eye-catching light metallic green that originally drew me to the car repeatedly at he dealership.

The car had 90k miles on it, and the dealer was asking $2300 for it. I usually come to a dealership with cash n hand and negotiate deals much lower than asking prices, but this time I only had enough to barely do a down-paymnt and so I had to pay the $2300 (instead of an estmated $1800 after negotiation).

Still, the settled price was way under the blue book pivate party value. Part of the reason for this, however, was that the tires needed immediate replacement, the front brakes needed replacement and the car has occasional trouble idling. So far, I fixed the tires and brakes, but have to get the trouble codes and hunt down the faulty component(s).

Okay, so here goes wih the details.

INTERIOR:
The inside is fairly simple an sleek in design. There is little complication throughout the vehicle, with the exception of the radio controls. The fit & finish is fairly good, especially when compared to something like a Grand Am of the same model year. The dash gauges cover everything and are beautifully arranged, with a comfortable blue hue at night. The climate controls

are simple in design and easily understood while driving. Lights and wipers are column-stick controlled. Mine is equipped with a rear window defroster/defogger, but I still haven't managed to find the switch for it (gotta check the manual, how embarrassing) but everything else was easy to find, go figure... Driver & front passenger have plenty of room and the seats are pretty comfortable, although the driver can bounce a little when driving, which maybe annoys me a little more than most. The rear cargo compartment under the hatch is surprisingly roomy, and is even more roomy with the rear 50/50 seatbacks flipped down. This, however is in direct contrast with the total lack of legroom before the rear seat, with the front seats slid far back - even kids have problems with this, only amputees would be comfortable in these conditions. The center console is nicely designed, however the ashtray illumination sucks.

EXTERIOR:
Hmmm... I'm not a real big fan of the first generation Probe, and never have been. The second gen Probe, however was a ball spiked in my endzone. I don't really give a rat's butt about judgements cast from Probe-bashers anymore than I car about what they chose to drive instead. I take every design objectively at face-value, and believe that as a base-model coupe, the '95 probe is a very good looking car.

As I have mentioned in other reviews, I prefer non-metal bodies, and wish this model was made that way, but didn't really have a choice in the matter. Fortunately, there is no rust on mine, only a scratch  and a couple of door-bumps on the passenger door which were probably inflicted at the dealership (gooberesque salesmen and closely-parked cars usually result in dents). The door and hatch handles are easy to use. The flip-up lights seem to function smoothly and give a sense of reliability (we'll see when the ice comes this winter how they really fare).

The doors are light yet long, and give a kind of hollow-metal twang when closed normally. The doors latch with relatively little pressure. The rear hatch is somewhat heavy, however this could be because the gas strut supports need replacement.

MECHANICAL:
My '95 is a base model, equipped with a standard Mazda 2.0 litre DOHC 16-valve 4-cylinder engine. The transmission is a 4-speed automatic with a shifter in the center console. Overdrive is included, and is engaged at speeds over 40MPH after 3rd gear. The engine gives maximum power (127 HP) at 4500 RPM. Supposedly, this model gets 26-33 MPG, however I have not been able to confirm this due to a lack of interest. When cold, shifting from 1st to 2nd tends to be a little less refined than when the car is warmed up.

The suspension is light, yet stable. Highway driving is controlled easily and the ride is secure and responsive. The ride is not choppy or harsh. The suspension is very tight, and there are almost no noises when handling bumps, except for a little exhaust rattle under harsh conditions. The p185/65/14 tire size is an excellent match in every way conceivable for this car.

Mine is equipped with few luxuries, and the manual windows and door locks, due to their simple design should hold up for the life of the car.

            
<label> Yes
<rating>  3.0

</DOC>
<